# DYNAMIC CAPABILITIES AND STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT

DAVID J. TEECE1\*, GARY PISANO2 and AMY SHUEN3

<sup>1</sup>Haas School of Business, University of California, Berkeley, California, U.S.A. <sup>2</sup>Graduate School of Business Administration, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A.

<sup>3</sup>School of Business, San Jose State University, San Jose, California, U.S.A.

The dynamic capabilities framework analyzes the sources and methods of wealth creation and capture by private enterprise firms operating in environments of rapid technological change. The competitive advantage of firms is seen as resting on distinctive processes (ways of coordinating and combining), shaped by the firm's (specific) asset positions (such as the firm's portfolio of difficult-to-trade knowledge assets and complementary assets), and the evolution path(s) it has adopted or inherited. The importance of path dependencies is amplified where conditions of increasing returns exist. Whether and how a firm's competitive advantage is eroded depends on the stability of market demand, and the ease of replicability (expanding internally) and imitatability (replication by competitors). If correct, the framework suggests that private wealth creation in regimes of rapid technological change depends in large measure on honing internal technological, organizational, and managerial processes inside the firm. In short, identifying new opportunities and organizing effectively and efficiently to embrace them are generally more fundamental to private wealth creation than is strategizing, if by strategizing one means engaging in business conduct that keeps competitors off balance, raises rival's costs, and excludes new entrants. © 1997 by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

#### INTRODUCTION

The fundamental question in the field of strategic management is how firms achieve and sustain competitive advantage. We confront this question here by developing the dynamic capabilities approach, which endeavors to analyze the sources of wealth creation and capture by firms. The development of this framework flows from a recognition by the authors that strategic theory is replete with analyses of firm-level strategies for sustaining and safeguarding extant competitive advantage, but has performed less well with

Key words: competences; capabilities; innovation; strategy; path dependency; knowledge assets

respect to assisting in the understanding of how and why certain firms build competitive advantage in regimes of rapid change. Our approach is especially relevant in a Schumpeterian world of innovation-based competition, price/performance rivalry, increasing returns, and the 'creative destruction' of existing competences. The approach endeavors to explain firm-level success and failure. We are interested in both building a better theory of firm performance, as well as informing managerial practice.

In order to position our analysis in a manner that displays similarities and differences with existing approaches, we begin by briefly reviewing accepted frameworks for strategic management. We endeavor to expose implicit assumptions, and identify competitive circumstances where each paradigm might display some relative advantage as both a useful descriptive and normative theory of competitive strategy. While numerous theories have been advanced over the past

<sup>\*</sup>Correspondence to: David J. Teece, Institute of Management, Innovation and Organization, Haas School of Business, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720–1930, U.S.A. <sup>1</sup> For a review of the fundamental questions in the field of strategy, see Rumelt, Schendel, and Teece (1994).

advantage, many cluster around just a few loosely nature of the isolating mechanisms that enable structured frameworks or paradigms. In this paper entrepreneurial rents and competitive advantage we attempt to identify three existing paradigms to be sustained.

that firms build enduring advantages only through competitive advantage. efficiency and effectiveness, and as developments We suggest that the dynamic capabilities Teece, 1984; Wernerfelt, 1984).2 This perspective

two decades about the sources of competitive recognizes but does not attempt to explain the

and describe aspects of an emerging new para- Another component of the efficiency-based digm that we label dynamic capabilities. approach is developed in this paper. Rudimentary The dominant paradigm in the field during efforts are made to identify the dimensions of the 1980s was the competitive forces approach firm-specific capabilities that can be sources of developed by Porter (1980). This approach, advantage, and to explain how combinations of rooted in the structure–conduct–performance competences and resources can be developed, paradigm of industrial organization (Mason, 1949; deployed, and protected. We refer to this as the Bain, 1959), emphasizes the actions a firm can 'dynamic capabilities' approach in order to stress take to create defensible positions against com- exploiting existing internal and external firmpetitive forces. A second approach, referred to as specific competences to address changing a strategic conflict approach (e.g., Shapiro, 1989), environments. Elements of the approach can be is closely related to the first in its focus on found in Schumpeter (1942), Penrose (1959), product market imperfections, entry deterrence, Nelson and Winter (1982), Prahalad and Hamel and strategic interaction. The strategic conflict (1990), Teece (1976, 1986a, 1986b, 1988) and approach uses the tools of game theory and thus in Hayes, Wheelwright, and Clark (1988): implicitly views competitive outcomes as a func- Because this approach emphasizes the develoption of the effectiveness with which firms keep ment of management capabilities, and difficulttheir rivals off balance through strategic invest- to-imitate combinations of organizational, funcments, pricing strategies, signaling, and the con- tional and technological skills, it integrates and trol of information. Both the competitive forces draws upon research in such areas as the manageand the strategic conflict approaches appear to ment of R&D, product and process development, share the view that rents flow from privileged technology transfer, intellectual property, manuproduct market positions. facturing, human resources, and organizational Another distinct class of approaches empha- learning. Because these fields are often viewed sizes building competitive advantage through cap- as outside the traditional boundaries of strategy, turing entrepreneurial rents stemming from funda- much of this research has not been incorporated mental firm-level efficiency advantages. These into existing economic approaches to strategy approaches have their roots in a much older issues. As a result, dynamic capabilities can be discussion of corporate strengths and weaknesses; seen as an emerging and potentially integrative they have taken on new life as evidence suggests approach to understanding the newer sources of

in organizational economics and the study of approach is promising both in terms of future technological and organizational change become research potential and as an aid to management applied to strategy questions. One strand of this endeavoring to gain competitive advantage in literature, often referred to as the 'resource-based increasingly demanding environments. To illusperspective,' emphasizes firm-specific capabilities trate the essential elements of the dynamic capaand assets and the existence of isolating mech- bilities approach, the sections that follow compare anisms as the fundamental determinants of firm and contrast this approach to other models of performance (Penrose, 1959; Rumelt, 1984; strategy. Each section highlights the strategic

intangible assets, such as technological or managerial know- tute a distinct paradigm of strategy.

how. Over time, these assets may expand beyond the point of profitable reinvestment in a firm's traditional market. <sup>2</sup> Of these authors, Rumelt may have been the first to selfconsciously apply a resource perspective to the field of strat- Accordingly, the firm may consider deploying its intangible egy. Rumelt (1984: 561) notes that the strategic firm 'is assets in different product or geographical markets, where the characterized by a bundle of linked and idiosyncratic resources expected returns are higher, if efficient transfer modes exist.' and resource conversion activities.' Similarly, Teece (1984: Wernerfelt (1984) was early to recognize that this approach 95) notes: 'Successful firms possess one or more forms of was at odds with product market approaches and might consti-

10970266, 979.7, Downloaded from https://sm.on.inleibrary.wie.jc.co.roidoi/10.1012/(SCI)1097-4266(99708)18/7-509::AID-SNJ882>3.0 CQ:2.Z., Wiley Online Library on [020502025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlineibrary.wiley.co.ron/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use, O. A articles are governed by the applicable Centric Common Library on O. The conditions of the common statement of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions o

insights provided by each approach as well as the different competitive circumstances in which it might be most appropriate. Needless to say, these approaches are in many ways complementary and a full understanding of firm-level, competitive advantage requires an appreciation of all four approaches and more.

### MODELS OF STRATEGY EMPHASIZING THE EXPLOITATION OF MARKET POWER

### Competitive forces

The dominant paradigm in strategy at least during the 1980s was the competitive forces approach. Pioneered by Porter (1980), the competitive forces approach views the essence of competitive strategy formulation as 'relating a company to its environment ... [T]he key aspect of the firm's environment is the industry or industries in which it competes.' Industry structure strongly influences the competitive rules of the game as well as the strategies potentially available to firms.

In the competitive forces model, five industry-level forces—entry barriers, threat of substitution, bargaining power of buyers, bargaining power of suppliers, and rivalry among industry incumbents—determine the inherent profit potential of an industry or subsegment of an industry. The approach can be used to help the firm find a position in an industry from which it can best defend itself against competitive forces or influence them in its favor (Porter, 1980: 4).

This 'five-forces' framework provides a systematic way of thinking about how competitive forces work at the industry level and how these forces determine the profitability of different industries and industry segments. The competitive forces framework also contains a number of underlying assumptions about the sources of competition and the nature of the strategy process. To facilitate comparisons with other approaches, we highlight several distinctive characteristics of the framework.

Economic rents in the competitive forces framework are monopoly rents (Teece, 1984). Firms in an industry earn rents when they are somehow able to impede the competitive forces (in either factor markets or product markets) which tend to drive economic returns to zero. Available strategies are described in Porter

(1980). Competitive strategies are often aimed at altering the firm's position in the industry *vis-à-vis* competitors and suppliers. Industry structure plays a central role in determining and limiting strategic action.

Some industries or subsectors of industries become more 'attractive' because they have structural impediments to competitive forces (e.g., entry barriers) that allow firms better opportunities for creating sustainable competitive advantages. Rents are created largely at the industry or subsector level rather than at the firm level. While there is some recognition given to firmspecific assets, differences among firms relate primarily to scale. This approach to strategy reflects its incubation inside the field of industrial organization and in particular the industrial structure school of Mason and Bain<sup>3</sup> (Teece, 1984).

### Strategic conflict

The publication of Carl Shapiro's 1989 article, confidently titled 'The Theory of Business Strategy,' announced the emergence of a new approach to business strategy, if not strategic management. This approach utilizes the tools of game theory to analyze the nature of competitive interaction between rival firms. The main thrust of work in this tradition is to reveal how a firm can influence the behavior and actions of rival firms and thus the market environment.4 Examples of such moves are investment in capacity (Dixit, 1980), R&D (Gilbert and Newberry, 1982), and advertising (Schmalensee, 1983). To be effective, these strategic moves require irreversible commitments.<sup>5</sup> The moves in question will have no effect if they can be costlessly undone. A key idea is that by manipulating the market environment, a firm may be able to increase its profits.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup> In competitive environments characterized by sustainable and stable mobility and structural barriers, these forces may become the determinants of industry-level profitability. However, competitive advantage is more complex to ascertain in environments of rapid technological change where specific assets owned by heterogeneous firms can be expected to play a larger role in explaining rents.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup> The market environment is all factors that influence market outcomes (prices, quantities, profits) including the beliefs of customers and of rivals, the number of potential technologies employed, and the costs or speed with which a rival can enter the industry.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup> For an excellent discussion of committed competition in multiple contexts, see Ghemawat (1991).

This literature, together with the contestability literature (Baumol, Panzar, and Willig, 1982), has led to a greater appreciation of the role of sunk costs, as opposed to fixed costs, in determining competitive outcomes. Strategic moves can also be designed to influence rivals' behavior through signaling. Strategic signaling has been examined in a number of contexts, including predatory pricing (Kreps and Wilson, 1982a, 1982b) and limit pricing (Milgrom and Roberts, 1982a, 1982b). More recent treatments have emphasized the role of commitment and reputation (e.g., Ghemawat, 1991) and the benefits of firms simultaneously pursuing competition and cooperation<sup>6</sup>

In many instances, game theory formalizes long-standing intuitive arguments about various types of business behavior (e.g., predatory pricing, patent races), though in some instances it has induced a substantial change in the conventional wisdom. But by rationalizing observed behavior by reference to suitably designed games, in explaining everything these models also explain nothing, as they do not generate testable predictions (Sutton, 1992). Many specific gametheoretic models admit multiple equilibrium, and a wide range of choice exists as to the design of the appropriate game form to be used. Unfortunately, the results often depend on the precise specification chosen. The equilibrium in models of strategic behavior crucially depends on what one rival believes another rival will do in a particular situation. Thus the qualitative features of the results may depend on the way price competition is modeled (e.g., Bertrand or Cournot) or on the presence or absence of strategic asymmetries such as first-mover advantages. The analysis of strategic moves using game theory can be thought of as 'dynamic' in the sense that multiperiod analyses can be pursued both intuitively and formally. However, we use the term 'dynamic' in this paper in a different sense, referring to situations where there is rapid change in technology and market forces, and 'feedback' effects on firms.7

(Brandenburger and Nalebuff, 1995, 1996).

We have a particular view of the contexts in

which the strategic conflict literature is relevant to strategic management. Firms that have a tremendous cost or other competitive advantage vis-à-vis their rivals ought not be transfixed by the moves and countermoves of their rivals. Their competitive fortunes will swing more on total demand conditions, not on how competitors deploy and redeploy their competitive assets. Put differently, when there are gross asymmetries in competitive advantage between firms, the results of game-theoretic analysis are likely to be obvious and uninteresting. The stronger competitor will generally advance, even if disadvantaged by certain information asymmetries. To be sure, incumbent firms can be undone by new entrants with a dramatic cost advantage, but no 'gaming' will overturn that outcome. On the other hand, if firms' competitive positions are more delicately balanced, as with Coke and Pepsi, and United Airlines and American Airlines, then strategic conflict is of interest to competitive outcomes. Needless to say, there are many such circumstances, but they are rare in industries where there is rapid technological change and fast-shifting market circumstances.

In short, where competitors do not have deepseated competitive advantages, the moves and countermoves of competitors can often be usefully formulated in game-theoretic terms. However, we doubt that game theory can comprehensively illuminate how Chrysler should compete against Toyota and Honda, or how United Airlines can best respond to Southwest Airlines since Southwest's advantage is built on organizational attributes which United cannot readily replicate.8 Indeed, the entrepreneurial side of strategy—how significant new rent streams are created and protected—is largely ignored by the gametheoretic approach.9 Accordingly, we find that the approach, while important, is most relevant 10970266, 979.7, Downloaded from https://sm.on.inleibrary.wie.jc.co.roidoi/10.1012/(SCI)1097-4266(99708)18/7-509::AID-SNJ882>3.0 CQ:2.Z., Wiley Online Library on [020502025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlineibrary.wiley.co.ron/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use, O. A articles are governed by the applicable Centric Common Library on O. The conditions of the common statement of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions of the conditions o

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>6</sup> Competition and cooperation have also been analyzed ouside of this tradition. See, for example, Teece (1992) and Link, Teece and Finan (1996).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>7</sup> Accordingly, both approaches are dynamic, but in very different senses.

<sup>8</sup> Thus even in the air transport industry game-theoretic formulations by no means capture all the relevant dimensions of competitive rivalry. United Airlines' and United Express's difficulties in competing with Southwest Airlines because of United's inability to fully replicate Southwest's operation capabilities is documented in Gittel (1995).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>9</sup> Important exceptions can be found in Brandenburger and Nalebuff (1996) such as their emphasis on the role of complements. However, these insights do not flow uniquely from game theory and can be found in the organizational economics literature (e.g., Teece, 1986a, 1986b; de Figueiredo and Teece, 1996).

imitate resources.13 theoretic perspective, are ultimately a result of managers' intellectual ability to 'play the game.' One can find the resources approach suggested The adage of the strategist steeped in this by the earlier preanalytic strategy literature. A approach is 'do unto others before they do unto leading text of the 1960s (Learned *et al*., 1969) you.' We worry that fascination with strategic noted that 'the capability of an organization is its moves and Machiavellian tricks will distract man- demonstrated and potential ability to accomplish agers from seeking to build more enduring against the opposition of circumstance or compesources of competitive advantage. The approach tition, whatever it sets out to do. Every organizaunfortunately ignores competition as a process tion has actual and potential strengths and weakinvolving the development, accumulation, combi- nesses; it is important to try to determine what nation, and protection of unique skills and capa- they are and to distinguish one from the other.' bilities. Since strategic interactions are what Thus what a firm can do is not just a function receive focal attention, the impression one might of the opportunities it confronts; it also depends receive from this literature is that success in the on what resources the organization can muster. marketplace is the result of sophisticated plays Learned *et al*. proposed that the real key to a

## **MODELS OF STRATEGY** decades.

superior systems and structures being profitable not because they engage in strategic investments

when competitors are closely matched<sup>10</sup> and the that may deter entry and raise prices above longpopulation of relevant competitors and the iden- run costs, but because they have markedly lower tity of their strategic alternatives can be readily costs, or offer markedly higher quality or product ascertained. Nevertheless, coupled with other performance. This approach focuses on the rents approaches it can sometimes yield powerful accruing to the owners of scarce firm-specific insights. resources rather than the economic profits from However, this research has an orientation that product market positioning.12 Competitive advanwe are concerned about in terms of the implicit tage lies 'upstream' of product markets and rests framing of strategic issues. Rents, from a game- on the firm's idiosyncratic and difficult-to-

and counterplays, when this is generally not the company's success or even to its future developcase at all. ment lies in its ability to find or create 'a com- <sup>11</sup> In what follows, we suggest that building a petence that is truly distinctive.'14 This literature dynamic view of the business enterprise— also recognized the constraints on firm behavior something missing from the two approaches we and, in particular, noted that one should not have so far identified—enhances the probability assume that management 'can rise to any of establishing an acceptable descriptive theory occasion.' These insights do appear to keenly of strategy that can assist practitioners in the anticipate the resource-based approach that has building of long-run advantage and competitive since emerged, but they did not provide a theory flexibility. Below, we discuss first the resource- or systematic framework for analyzing business based perspective and then an extension we call strategies. Indeed, Andrews (1987: 46) noted that the dynamic capabilities approach. 'much of what is intuitive in this process is yet to be identified.' Unfortunately, the academic literature on capabilities stalled for a couple of

**EMPHASIZING EFFICIENCY** New impetus has been given to the resourcebased approach by recent theoretical develop- **Resource-based perspective** ments in organizational economics and in the The resource-based approach sees firms with theory of strategy, as well as by a growing

titioners on product market positioning rather than on nology.' developing the unique assets which make possible superior <sup>14</sup> Elsewhere Andrews (1987: 47) defined a distinctive comproduct market positions (Dierickx and Cool, 1989). petence as what an organization can do particularly well.

<sup>12</sup> In the language of economics, rents flow from unique firmspecific assets that cannot readily be replicated, rather than from tactics which deter entry and keep competitors off <sup>10</sup> When closely matched in an aggregate sense, they may

nevertheless display asymmetries which game theorists can balance. In short, rents are Ricardian. <sup>13</sup> analyze. Teece (1982: 46) saw the firm as having 'a variety of end <sup>11</sup> The strategic conflict literature also tends to focus prac- products which it can produce with its organizational tech-

process of identifying and developing the requi- nesses (Teece, 1980, 1982).

stickiness arises for three reasons. First, business existing firm-specific assets.

body of anecdotal and empirical literature15 that process.<sup>18</sup> Quite simply, firms lack the organizahighlights the importance of firm-specific factors tional capacity to develop new competences in explaining firm performance. Cool and Schen- quickly (Dierickx and Cool, 1989). Secondly, del (1988) have shown that there are systematic some assets are simply not readily tradeable, for and significant performance differences among example, tacit know-how (Teece, 1976, 1980) firms which belong to the same strategic group and reputation (Dierickx and Cool, 1989). Thus, within the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. Rumelt resource endowments cannot equilibrate through (1991) has shown that intraindustry differences factor input markets. Finally, even when an asset in profits are greater than interindustry differences can be purchased, firms may stand to gain little by in profits, strongly suggesting the importance of doing so. As Barney (1986) points out, unless a firm-specific factors and the relative unimportance firm is lucky, possesses superior information, or of industry effects. both, the price it pays in a competitive factor <sup>16</sup> Jacobsen (1988) and Hansen and Wernerfelt (1989) made similar findings. market will fully capitalize the rents from the asset.

A comparison of the resource-based approach Given that in the resources perspective firms and the competitive forces approach (discussed possess heterogeneous and sticky resource earlier in the paper) in terms of their implications bundles, the entry decision process suggested by for the strategy process is revealing. From the this approach is as follows: (1) identify your first perspective, an entry decision looks roughly firm's unique resources; (2) decide in which maras follows: (1) pick an industry (based on its kets those resources can earn the highest rents; 'structural attractiveness'); (2) choose an entry and (3) decide whether the rents from those assets strategy based on conjectures about competitors' are most effectively utilized by (a) integrating rational strategies; (3) if not already possessed, into related market(s), (b) selling the relevant acquire or otherwise obtain the requisite assets to intermediate output to related firms, or (c) selling compete in the market. From this perspective, the the assets themselves to a firm in related busi-

site assets is not particularly problematic. The The resource-based perspective puts both vertiprocess involves nothing more than choosing cal integration and diversification into a new strarationally among a well-defined set of investment tegic light. Both can be viewed as ways of capturalternatives. If assets are not already owned, they ing rents on scarce, firm-specific assets whose can be bought. The resource-based perspective is services are difficult to sell in intermediate marstrongly at odds with this conceptualization. kets (Penrose, 1959; Williamson, 1975; Teece, From the resource-based perspective, firms are 1980, 1982, 1986a, 1986b; Wernerfelt, 1984). heterogeneous with respect to their resources/ Empirical work on the relationship between percapabilities/endowments. Further, resource endow- formance and diversification by Wernerfelt and ments are 'sticky:' at least in the short run, firms Montgomery (1988) provides evidence for this are to some degree stuck with what they have proposition. It is evident that the resource-based and may have to live with what they lack.17 This perspective focuses on strategies for exploiting 10970266, 1997, 7, Downloaded from https://sms.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/(SICI)1097-0266(199708)18:7<509::AID-SMJ882>3.0.CO;2-Z, Wiley Online Library on [02/05/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

development is viewed as an extremely complex However, the resource-based perspective also invites consideration of managerial strategies for developing new capabilities (Wernerfelt, 1984). <sup>15</sup> Studies of the automobile and other industries displayed Indeed, if control over scarce resources is the differences in organization which often underlay differences amongst firms. See, for example, Womack, Jones, and Roos, source of economic profits, then it follows that 1991; Hayes and Clark, 1985; Barney, Spender and Reve, such issues as skill acquisition, the management 1994; Clark and Fujimoto, 1991; Henderson and Cockburn, of knowledge and know-how (Shuen, 1994), and 1994; Nelson, 1991; Levinthal and Myatt, 1994. <sup>16</sup> Using FTC line of business data, Rumelt showed that stable learning become fundamental strategic issues. It

industry effects account for only 8 percent of the variance in is in this second dimension, encompassing skill business unit returns. Furthermore, only about 40 percent of acquisition, learning, and accumulation of organi- the dispersion in industry returns is due to stable industry

effects. zational and intangible or 'invisible' assets (Itami <sup>17</sup> In this regard, this approach has much in common with recent work on organizational ecology (e.g., Freeman and Boeker, 1984) and also on commitment (Ghemawat, 1991:

<sup>17–25).</sup> <sup>18</sup> Capability development, however, is not really analyzed.

and Roehl, 1987), that we believe lies the greatest are influenced by past choices. At any given point

for an expanded paradigm to understand how domains of competence.19 competitive advantage is achieved. Well-known The notion that competitive advantage requires companies like IBM, Texas Instruments, Philips, both the exploitation of existing internal and and others appear to have followed a 'resource- external firm-specific capabilities, and developing based strategy' of accumulating valuable tech- new ones is partially developed in Penrose nology assets, often guarded by an aggressive (1959), Teece (1982), and Wernerfelt (1984). intellectual property stance. However, this strat- However, only recently have researchers begun egy is often not enough to support a significant to focus on the specifics of how some organizacompetitive advantage. Winners in the global tions first develop firm-specific capabilities and marketplace have been firms that can demonstrate how they renew competences to respond to shifts timely responsiveness and rapid and flexible prod- in the business environment.20 These issues are uct innovation, coupled with the management intimately tied to the firm's business processes, capability to effectively coordinate and redeploy market positions, and expansion paths. Several internal and external competences. Not surpris- writers have recently offered insights and eviingly, industry observers have remarked that com- dence on how firms can develop their capability panies can accumulate a large stock of valuable to adapt and even capitalize on rapidly changing technology assets and still not have many use- environments.<sup>21</sup> The dynamic capabilities ful capabilities. approach seeks to provide a coherent framework

congruence with the changing business environ- Teece *et al*. (1994). ment; certain innovative responses are required when time-to-market and timing are critical, the rate of technological change is rapid, and the **TOWARD A DYNAMIC CAPABILITIES** nature of future competition and markets difficult **FRAMEWORK** to determine. The term 'capabilities' emphasizes **Terminology** the key role of strategic management in appropriately adapting, integrating, and reconfiguring In order to facilitate theory development and resources, and functional competences to match are desirable. We propose the following. the requirements of a changing environment.

One aspect of the strategic problem facing <sup>19</sup> Deciding, under significant uncertainty about future states an innovating firm in a world of Schumpeterian of the world, which long-term paths to commit to and when competition is to identify difficult-to-imitate to change paths is the central strategic problem confronting the firm. In this regard, the work of Ghemawat (1991) is internal and external competences most likely to highly germane to the dynamic capabilities approach to support valuable products and services. Thus, as strategy. <sup>20</sup> argued by Dierickx and Cool (1989), choices See, for example, Iansiti and Clark (1994) and Henderson (1994). about how much to spend (invest) on different <sup>21</sup> See Hayes *et al*. (1988), Prahalad and Hamel (1990), possible areas are central to the firm's strategy. Dierickx and Cool (1989), Chandler (1990), and Teece However, choices about domains of competence (1993).

potential for contributions to strategy. in time, firms must follow a certain trajectory or path of competence development. This path not only defines what choices are open to the firm **The dynamic capabilities approach: Overview** today, but it also puts bounds around what its The global competitive battles in high-technology internal repertoire is likely to be in the future. industries such as semiconductors, information Thus, firms, at various points in time, make longservices, and software have demonstrated the need term, quasi-irreversible commitments to certain

We refer to this ability to achieve new forms which can both integrate existing conceptual and of competitive advantage as 'dynamic capabili- empirical knowledge, and facilitate prescription. ties' to emphasize two key aspects that were not In doing so, it builds upon the theoretical founthe main focus of attention in previous strategy dations provided by Schumpeter (1934), Penrose perspectives. The term 'dynamic' refers to the (1959), Williamson (1975, 1985), Barney (1986), capacity to renew competences so as to achieve Nelson and Winter (1982), Teece (1988), and

internal and external organizational skills, intellectual dialogue, some acceptable definitions

#### Factors of production

These are 'undifferentiated' inputs available in disaggregate form in factor markets. By undifferentiated we mean that they lack a firm-specific component. Land, unskilled labor, and capital are typical examples. Some factors may be available for the taking, such as public knowledge. In the language of Arrow, such resources must be 'nonfugitive.' Property rights are usually well defined for factors of production.

#### Resources<sup>23</sup>

Resources are firm-specific assets that are difficult if not impossible to imitate. Trade secrets and certain specialized production facilities and engineering experience are examples. Such assets are difficult to transfer among firms because of transactions costs and transfer costs, and because the assets may contain tacit knowledge.

### Organizational routines/competences

When firm-specific assets are assembled in integrated clusters spanning individuals and groups so that they enable distinctive activities to be performed, these activities constitute organizational routines and processes. Examples include quality, miniaturization, and systems integration. Such competences are typically viable across multiple product lines, and may extend outside the firm to embrace alliance partners.

#### Core competences

We define those competences that define a firm's fundamental business as core. Core competences must accordingly be derived by looking across the range of a firm's (and its competitors) products and services.<sup>24</sup> The value of core competences can be enhanced by combination with the appropriate complementary assets. The degree

<sup>22</sup> Arrow (1996) defines fugitive resources as ones that can move cheaply amongst individuals and firms.

to which a core competence is distinctive depends on how well endowed the firm is relative to its competitors, and on how difficult it is for competitors to replicate its competences.

### Dynamic capabilities

We define dynamic capabilities as the firm's ability to integrate, build, and reconfigure internal and external competences to address rapidly changing environments. Dynamic capabilities thus reflect an organization's ability to achieve new and innovative forms of competitive advantage given path dependencies and market positions (Leonard-Barton, 1992).

#### **Products**

End products are the final goods and services produced by the firm based on utilizing the competences that it possesses. The performance (price, quality, etc.) of a firm's products relative to its competitors at any point in time will depend upon its competences (which over time depend on its capabilities).

### Markets and strategic capabilities

Different approaches to strategy view sources of wealth creation and the essence of the strategic problem faced by firms differently. The competitive forces framework sees the strategic problem in terms of industry structure, entry deterrence, and positioning; game-theoretic models view the strategic problem as one of interaction between rivals with certain expectations about how each other will behave;<sup>25</sup> resource-based perspectives have focused on the exploitation of firm-specific assets. Each approach asks different, often complementary questions. A key step in building a conceptual framework related to dynamic capabilities is to identify the foundations upon which distinctive and difficult-to-replicate advantages can be built, maintained, and enhanced.

A useful way to vector in on the strategic elements of the business enterprise is first to identify what is not strategic. To be strategic, a

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>23</sup> We do not like the term 'resource' and believe it is misleading. We prefer to use the term firm-specific asset. We use it here to try and maintain links to the literature on the resource-based approach which we believe is important.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>24</sup> Thus Eastman Kodak's core competence might be considered imaging, IBM's might be considered integrated data processing and service, and Motorola's untethered communications

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>25</sup> In sequential move games, each player looks ahead and anticipates his rival's future responses in order to reason back and decide action, i.e., look forward, reason backward.

capability must be honed to a user need<sup>26</sup> (so there is a source of revenues), unique (so that the products/services produced can be priced without too much regard to competition) and difficult to replicate (so profits will not be competed away). Accordingly, any assets or entity which are homogeneous and can be bought and sold at an established price cannot be all that strategic (Barney, 1986). What is it, then, about firms which undergirds competitive advantage?

To answer this, one must first make some fundamental distinctions between markets and internal organization (firms). The essence of the firm, as Coase (1937) pointed out, is that it displaces market organization. It does so in the main because inside the firms one can organize certain types of economic activity in ways one cannot using markets. This is not only because of transaction costs, as Williamson (1975, 1985) emphasized, but also because there are many types of arrangements where injecting high-powered (market like) incentives might well be quite destructive of cooperative activity and learning.<sup>27</sup> Inside an organization, exchange cannot take place in the same manner that it can outside an organization, not just because it might be destructive to provide high-powered individual incentives, but because it is difficult if not impossible to tightly calibrate individual contribution to a joint effort. Hence, contrary to Arrow's (1969) view of firms as quasi markets, and the task of management to inject markets into firms, we recognize the inherent limits and possible counterproductive results of attempting to fashion firms into simply clusters of internal markets. In particular, learning and internal technology transfer may well be jeopardized.

Indeed, what is distinctive about firms is that they are domains for organizing activity in a nonmarket-like fashion. Accordingly, as we discuss what is distinctive about firms, we stress competences/capabilities which are ways of organizing and getting things done which cannot be accomplished merely by using the price system

to coordinate activity.<sup>28</sup> The very essence of most capabilities/competences is that they cannot be readily assembled through markets (Teece, 1982, 1986a; Zander and Kogut, 1995). If the ability to assemble competences using markets is what is meant by the firm as a nexus of contracts (Fama, 1980), then we unequivocally state that the firm about which we theorize cannot be usefully modeled as a nexus of contracts. By 'contract' we are referring to a transaction undergirded by a legal agreement, or some other arrangement which clearly spells out rights, rewards, and responsibilities. Moreover, the firm as a nexus of contracts suggests a series of bilateral contracts orchestrated by a coordinator. Our view of the firm is that the organization takes place in a more multilateral fashion, with patterns of behavior and learning being orchestrated in a much more decentralized fashion, but with a viable headquarters operation.

The key point, however, is that the properties of internal organization cannot be replicated by a portfolio of business units amalgamated just through formal contracts as many distinctive elements of internal organization simply cannot be replicated in the market.<sup>29</sup> That is, entrepreneurial activity cannot lead to the immediate replication of unique organizational skills through simply entering a market and piecing the parts together overnight. Replication takes time, and the replication of best practice may be illusive. Indeed, firm capabilities need to be understood not in terms of balance sheet items, but mainly in terms of the organizational structures and managerial processes which support productive activity. By construction, the firm's balance sheet contains items that can be valued, at least at original market prices (cost). It is necessarily the case, therefore, that the balance sheet is a poor shadow of a firm's distinctive competences.<sup>30</sup>

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>26</sup> Needless to say, users need not be the current customers of the enterprise. Thus a capability can be the basis for diversification into new product markets.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>27</sup> Indeed, the essence of internal organization is that it is a domain of unleveraged or low-powered incentives. By unleveraged we mean that rewards are determined at the group or organization level, not primarily at the individual level, in an effort to encourage team behavior, not individual behavior.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>28</sup> We see the problem of market contracting as a matter of coordination as much as we see it a problem of opportunism in the fact of contractual hazards. In this sense, we are consonant with both Richardson (1960) and Williamson (1975, 1985).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>29</sup> As we note in Teece *et al.* (1994), the conglomerate offers few if any efficiencies because there is little provided by the conglomerate form that shareholders cannot obtain for themselves simply by holding a diversified portfolio of stocks. <sup>30</sup> Owners' equity may reflect, in part, certain historic capabilities. Recently, some scholars have begun to attempt to measure organizational capability using financial statement data. See Baldwin and Clark (1991) and Lev and Sougiannis (1992)

That which is distinctive cannot be bought and sold short of buying the firm itself, or one or more of its subunits.

There are many dimensions of the business firm that must be understood if one is to grasp firm-level distinctive competences/capabilities. In this paper we merely identify several classes of factors that will help determine a firm's distinctive competence and dynamic capabilities. We organize these in three categories: processes, positions, and paths. The essence of competences and capabilities is embedded in organizational processes of one kind or another. But the content of these processes and the opportunities they afford for developing competitive advantage at any point in time are shaped significantly by the assets the firm possesses (internal and market) by the evolutionary path adopted/inherited. Hence organizational processes, shaped by the firm's asset positions and molded by its evolutionary and co-evolutionary paths, explain the essence of the firm's dynamic capabilities and its competitive advantage.

#### Processes, positions, and paths

We thus advance the argument that the competitive advantage of firms lies with its managerial and organizational processes, shaped by its (specific) asset position, and the paths available to it.31 By managerial and organizational processes, we refer to the way things are done in the firm, or what might be referred to as its routines, or patterns of current practice and learning. By position we refer to its current specific endowments of technology, intellectual property, complementary assets, customer base, and its external relations with suppliers and complementors. By paths we refer to the strategic alternatives available to the firm, and the presence or absence of increasing returns and attendant path dependencies.

Our focus throughout is on asset structures for which no ready market exists, as these are the only assets of strategic interest. A final section focuses on replication and imitation, as it is these phenomena which determine how readily a competence or capability can be cloned by competitors, and therefore distinctiveness of its competences and the durability of its advantage.

The firm's processes and positions collectively encompass its competences and capabilities. A hierarchy of competences/capabilities ought to be recognized, as some competences may be on the factory floor, some in the R&D labs, some in the executive suites, and some in the way everything is integrated. A difficult-to-replicate or difficult-to-imitate competence was defined earlier as a distinctive competence. As indicated, the key feature of distinctive competence is that there is not a market for it, except possibly through the market for business units. Hence competences and capabilities are intriguing assets as they typically must be built because they cannot be bought.

### Organizational and managerial processes

Organizational processes have three roles: coordination/integration (a static concept); learning (a dynamic concept); and reconfiguration (a transformational concept). We discuss each in turn.

Coordination/integration. While the price system supposedly coordinates the economy,<sup>32</sup> managers coordinate or integrate activity inside the firm. How efficiently and effectively internal coordination or integration is achieved is very important (Aoki, 1990).<sup>33</sup> Likewise for external coordination.<sup>34</sup> Increasingly, strategic advantage requires the integration of external activities and technologies. The growing literature on strategic

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>31</sup> We are implicitly saying that fixed assets, like plant and equipment which can be purchased off-the-shelf by all industry participants, cannot be the source of a firm's competitive advantage. In asmuch as financial balance sheets typically reflect such assets, we point out that the assets that matter for competitive advantage are rarely reflected in the balance sheet, while those that do not are.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>32</sup> The coordinative properties of markets depend on prices being "sufficient" upon which to base resource allocation decisions.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>33</sup> Indeed, Ronald Coase, author of the pathbreaking 1937 article 'The nature of the firm,' which focused on the costs of organizational coordination inside the firm as compared to across the market, half a century later has identified as critical the understanding of 'why the costs of organizing particular activities differs among firms' (Coase, 1988: 47). We argue that a firm's distinctive ability needs to be understood as a reflection of distinctive organizational or coordinative capabilities. This form of integration (i.e., inside business units) is different from the integration between business units; they could be viable on a stand-alone basis (external integration). For a useful taxonomy, see Iansiti and Clark (1994).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>34</sup> Shuen (1994) examines the gains and hazards of the technology make-vs.-buy decision and supplier codevelopment.

alliances, the virtual corporation, and buyer–supplier relations and technology collaboration evidences the importance of external integration and sourcing.

There is some field-based empirical research that provides support for the notion that the way production is organized by management inside the firm is the source of differences in firms' competence in various domains. For example, Garvin's (1988) study of 18 room air-conditioning plants reveals that quality performance was not related to either capital investment or the degree of automation of the facilities. Instead, quality performance was driven by special organizational routines. These included routines for gathering and processing information, for linking customer experiences with engineering design choices, and for coordinating factories and component suppliers.35 The work of Clark and Fujimoto (1991) on project development in the automobile industry also illustrates the role played by coordinative routines. Their study reveals a significant degree of variation in how different firms coordinate the various activities required to bring a new model from concept to market. These differences in coordinative routines and capabilities seem to have a significant impact on such performance variables as development cost, development lead times, and quality. Furthermore, Clark and Fujimoto tended to find significant firm-level differences in coordination routines and these differences seemed to have persisted for a long time. This suggests that routines related to coordination are firm-specific in nature.

Also, the notion that competence/capability is embedded in distinct ways of coordinating and combining helps to explain how and why seemingly minor technological changes can have devastating impacts on incumbent firms' abilities to compete in a market. Henderson and Clark (1990), for example, have shown that incumbments in the photolithographic equipment industry were sequentially devasted by seemingly minor innovations that, nevertheless, had major impacts on how systems had to be configured. They attribute these difficulties to the fact that systems-level or 'architectural' innovations often require new routines to integrate and coordinate engineering tasks. These findings and others sug-

gest that productive systems display high interdependency, and that it may not be possible to change one level without changing others. This appears to be true with respect to the 'lean production' model (Womack et al., 1991) which has now transformed the Taylor or Ford model of manufacturing organization in the automobile industry.<sup>36</sup> Lean production requires distinctive shop floor practices and processes as well as distinctive higher-order managerial processes. Put differently, organizational processes often display high levels of coherence, and when they do, replication may be difficult because it requires systemic changes throughout the organization and also among interorganizational linkages, which might be very hard to effectuate. Put differently, partial imitation or replication of a successful model may yield zero benefits.<sup>37</sup>

<sup>36</sup> Fujimoto (1994: 18-20) describes key elements as they existed in the Japanese auto industry as follows: 'The typical volume production system of effective Japanese makers of the 1980s (e.g., Toyota) consists of various intertwined elements that might lead to competitive advantages. Just-in-Time (JIT), Jidoka (automatic defect detection and machine stop), Total Quality Control (TQC), and continuous improvement (Kaizen) are often pointed out as its core subsystems. The elements of such a system include inventory reduction mechanisms by Kanban system; levelization of production volume and product mix (heijunka); reduction of 'muda' (non-value adding activities), 'mura' (uneven pace of production) and muri (excessive workload); production plans based on dealers' order volume (genyo seisan); reduction of die set-up time and lot size in stamping operation; mixed model assembly; piece-by-piece transfer of parts between machines (ikko-nagashi); flexible task assignment for volume changes and productivity improvement (shojinka); multi-task job assignment along the process flow (takotei-mochi); Ushape machine layout that facilitates flexible and multiple task assignment, on-the-spot inspection by direct workers (tsukurikomi); fool-proof prevention of defects (poka-yoke); real-time feedback of production troubles (andon); assembly line stop cord; emphasis on cleanliness, order and discipline on the shop floor (5-S); frequent revision of standard operating procedures by supervisors; quality control circles; standardized tools for quality improvement (e.g., 7 tools for QC, QC story); worker involvement in preventive maintenance (Total Productive Maintenance); low cost automation or semi-automation with just-enough functions); reduction of process steps for saving of tools and dies, and so on. The human-resource management factors that back up the above elements include stable employment of core workers (with temporary workers in the periphery); long-term training of multi-skilled (multitask) workers; wage system based in part on skill accumulation; internal promotion to shop floor supervisors; cooperative relationships with labor unions; inclusion of production supervisors in union members; generally egalitarian policies for corporate welfare, communication and worker motivation. Parts procurement policies are also pointed out often as a source of the competitive advantage.

 $<sup>^{35}\,\</sup>mathrm{Garvin}$  (1994) provides a typology of organizational processes.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>37</sup> For a theoretical argument along these lines, see Milgrom and Roberts (1990).

The notion that there is a certain rationality or

coherence to processes and systems is not quite

the same concept as corporate culture, as we

understand the latter. Corporate culture refers to

the values and beliefs that employees hold; cul-

ture can be a de facto governance system as it

mediates the behavior of individuals and econo-

mizes on more formal administrative methods.

Rationality or coherence notions are more akin

to the Nelson and Winter (1982) notion of organizational routines. However, the routines concept

is a little too amorphous to properly capture

the congruence amongst processes and between

processes and incentives that we have in mind.

Consider a professional service organization like an accounting firm. If it is to have relatively

high-powered incentives that reward individual

performance, then it must build organizational

processes that channel individual behavior; if it

has weak or low-powered incentives, it must find

symbolic ways to recognize the high performers,

and it must use alternative methods to build effort

and enthusiasm. What one may think of as styles

of organization in fact contain necessary, not

discretionary, elements to achieve performance.

which repetition and experimentation enable tasks to be performed better and quicker. It also enables new production opportunities to be identified.<sup>39</sup> In the context of the firm, if not more generally, learning has several key characteristics. First, learning involves organizational as well as individual skills. 40 While individual skills are of relevance, their value depends upon their employment, in particular organizational settings. Learning processes are intrinsically social and collective and occur not only through the imitation and emulation of individuals, as with teacher-student or master-apprentice, but also because of joint contributions to the understanding of complex problems.<sup>41</sup> Learning requires common codes of communication and coordinated search procedures. Second, the organizational knowledge generated by such activity resides in new patterns of activity, in 'routines,' or a new logic of organization. As indicated earlier, routines are patterns of interactions that represent successful solutions to particular problems. These patterns of interaction are resident in group behavior, though certain subroutines may be resident in individual behavior. The concept of dynamic capabilities as a coordinative management process opens the door to the potential for interorganizational learning. Researchers (Doz and Shuen, 1990; Mody, 1993) have pointed out that collaborations and partnerships can be a vehicle for new organizational learning, helping firms to recognize dysfunctional routines, and

Recognizing the congruences and complementarities among processes, and between processes and incentives, is critical to the understanding of organizational capabilities. In particular, they can help us explain why architectural and radical innovations are so often introduced into an industry by new entrants. The incumbents develop distinctive organizational processes that cannot support the new technology, despite certain overt similarities between the old and the new. The frequent failure of incumbents to introduce new technologies can thus be seen as a consequence of the mismatch that so often exists between the set of organizational processes needed to support the conventional product/service and the requirements of the new. Radical organizational reengineering will usually be required to support the new product, which may well do better embedded in a separate subsidiary where a new set of coherent organizatonal processes can be fashioned.38

Learning. Perhaps even more important than integration is learning. Learning is a process by Reconfiguration and transformation. In rapidly changing environments, there is obviously value in the ability to sense the need to reconfigure the firm's asset structure, and to accomplish the necessary internal and external transformation (Amit and Schoemaker, 1993; Langlois, 1994). This requires constant surveillance of markets and technologies and the willingness to adopt best practice. In this regard, benchmarking is of con-

preventing strategic blindspots.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>39</sup> For a useful review and contribution, see Levitt and March (1988).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>40</sup> Levinthal and March, 1993. Mahoney (1992) and Mahoney and Pandian (1995) suggest that both resources and mental models are intertwined in firm-level learning.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>41</sup> There is a large literature on learning, although only a small fraction of it deals with organizational learning. Relevant contributors include Levitt and March (1988), Argyris and Schon (1978), Levinthal and March (1981), Nelson and Winter (1982), and Leonard-Barton (1995).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>38</sup> See Abernathy and Clark (1985).

environment, to evaluate markets and competitors, in drum brakes. and to quickly accomplish reconfiguration and

ence of its internal and external processes and ought be more determinative. incentives, but also by its specific assets. By

differentiators among firms. Likewise for com- what they know rather than what is knowable. plementary assets.

siderable value as an organized process for Prior commercialization activities require and accomplishing such ends (Camp, 1989). In enable firms to build such complementarities dynamic environments, narcissistic organizations (Teece, 1986b). Such capabilities and assets, are likely to be impaired. The capacity to recon- while necessary for the firm's established activifigure and transform is itself a learned organiza- ties, may have other uses as well. These assets tional skill. The more frequently practiced, the typically lie downstream. New products and proceasier accomplished. esses either can enhance or destroy the value of Change is costly and so firms must develop such assets (Tushman, Newman, and Romanelli, processes to minimize low pay-off change. The 1986). Thus the development of computers ability to calibrate the requirements for change enhanced the value of IBM's direct sales force and to effectuate the necessary adjustments would in office products, while disk brakes rendered appear to depend on the ability to scan the useless much of the auto industry's investment

transformation ahead of competition. Decentrali- *Financial assets.* In the short run, a firm's cash zation and local autonomy assist these processes. position and degree of leverage may have stra-Firms that have honed these capabilities are tegic implications. While there is nothing more sometimes referred to as 'high-flex'. fungible than cash, it cannot always be raised from external markets without the dissemination of considerable information to potential investors. *Positions* Accordingly, what a firm can do in short order The strategic posture of a firm is determined not is often a function of its balance sheet. In the only by its learning processes and by the coher- longer run, that ought not be so, as cash flow

specific assets we mean for example its special- *Reputational assets.* Firms, like individuals, ized plant and equipment. These include its have reputations. Reputations often summarize a difficult-to-trade knowledge assets and assets good deal of information about firms and shape complementary to them, as well as its reputational the responses of customers, suppliers, and comand relational assets. Such assets determine its petitors. It is sometimes difficult to disentangle competitive advantage at any point in time. We reputation from the firm's current asset and maridentify several illustrative classes. ket position. However, in our view, reputational assets are best viewed as an intangible asset that *Technological assets.* While there is an emerg- enables firms to achieve various goals in the ing market for know-how (Teece, 1981), much market. Its main value is external, since what is technology does not enter it. This is either critical about reputation is that it is a kind of because the firm is unwilling to sell it42 or summary statistic about the firm's current assets because of difficulties in transacting in the market and position, and its likely future behavior. for know-how (Teece, 1980). A firm's techno- Because there is generally a strong asymmetry logical assets may or may not be protected by between what is known inside the firm and what the standard instruments of intellectual property is known externally, reputations may sometimes law. Either way, the ownership protection and be more salient than the true state of affairs, in utilization of technological assets are clearly key the sense that external actors must respond to

*Structural assets.* The formal and informal *Complementary assets.* Technological inno- structure of organizations and their external linkvations require the use of certain related assets ages have an important bearing on the rate and to produce and deliver new products and services. direction of innovation, and how competences and capabilities co-evolve (Argyres, 1995; Teece, <sup>42</sup> Managers often evoke the 'crown jewels' metaphor. That 1996). The degree of hierarchy and the level of is, if the technology is released, the kingdom will be lost. vertical and lateral integration are elements of

firm-specific structure. Distinctive governance modes can be recognized (e.g., multiproduct, integrated firms; high 'flex' firms; virtual corporations; conglomerates), and these modes support different types of innovation to a greater or lesser degree. For instance, virtual structures work well when innovation is autonomous; integrated structures work better for systemic innovations.

Institutional assets. Environments cannot be defined in terms of markets alone. While public policies are usually recognized as important in constraining what firms can do, there is a tendency, particularly by economists, to see these as acting through markets or through incentives. However, institutions themselves are a critical element of the business environment. Regulatory systems, as well as intellectual property regimes, tort laws, and antitrust laws, are also part of the environment. So is the system of higher education and national culture. There are significant national differences here, which is just one of the reasons geographic location matters (Nelson, 1994). Such assets may not be entirely firm specific; firms of different national and regional origin may have quite different institutional assets to call upon because their institutional/policy settings are so different.

Market (structure) assets. Product market position matters, but it is often not at all determinative of the fundamental position of the enterprise in its external environment. Part of the problem lies in defining the market in which a firm competes in a way that gives economic meaning. More importantly, market position in regimes of rapid technological change is often extremely fragile. This is in part because time moves on a different clock in such environments.<sup>43</sup> Moreover, the link between market share and innovation has long been broken, if it ever existed (Teece, 1996). All of this is to suggest that product market position, while important, is too often overplayed. Strategy should be formulated with regard to the more fundamental aspects of firm performance, which we believe are rooted in competences and capabilities and shaped by positions and paths.

Organizational boundaries. An important dimension of 'position' is the location of a firm's boundaries. Put differently, the degree of integration (vertical, lateral, and horizontal) is of quite some significance. Boundaries are not only significant with respect to the technological and complementary assets contained within, but also with respect to the nature of the coordination that can be achieved internally as compared to through markets. When specific assets or poorly protected intellectual capital are at issue, pure market arrangements expose the parties to recontracting hazards or appropriability hazards. In such circumstances, hierarchical control structures may work better than pure arms-length contracts.<sup>44</sup>

#### Paths

Path dependencies. Where a firm can go is a function of its current position and the paths ahead. Its current position is often shaped by the path it has traveled. In standard economics textbooks, firms have an infinite range of technologies from which they can choose and markets they can occupy. Changes in product or factor prices will be responded to instantaneously, with technologies moving in and out according to value maximization criteria. Only in the short run are irreversibilities recognized. Fixed costs—such as equipment and overheads—cause firms to price below fully amortized costs but never constrain future investment choices. 'Bygones are bygones.' Path dependencies are simply not recognized. This is a major limitation of microeconomic

The notion of path dependencies recognizes that 'history matters.' Bygones are rarely bygones, despite the predictions of rational actor theory. Thus a firm's previous investments and

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>43</sup> For instance, an Internet year might well be thought of as equivalent to 10 years on many industry clocks, because as much change occurs in the Internet business in a year that occurs in say the auto industry in a decade.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>44</sup> Williamson (1996: 102–103) has observed, failures of coordination may arise because 'parties that bear a long term bilateral dependency relationship to one another must recognize that incomplete contracts require gap filling and sometimes get out of alignment. Although it is always in the collective interest of autonomous parties to fill gaps, correct errors, and affect efficient realignments, it is also the case that the distribution of the resulting gains is indeterminate. Self-interested bargaining predictably obtains. Such bargaining is itself costly. The main costs, however, are that transactions are maladapted to the environment during the bargaining interval. Also, the prospect of ex post bargaining invites ex ante prepositioning of an inefficient kind.'

attractive the more they are adopted. Attractive- of ferment in the competitive environment. ness flows from the greater adoption of the prod-Early leads won by good luck or special circum- are being made. stances (Arthur, 1983) can become amplified by However, technological opportunities may not already controlling the relevant complementary

its repertoire of routines (its 'history') constrain gically through technology-sponsoring activities.46 its future behavior. The first type of competition is not unlike biologi- <sup>45</sup> This follows because learning tends to be local. That is, opportunities for cal competition amongst species, although it can learning will be 'close in' to previous activities be sharpened by managerial activities that and thus will be transaction and production spe- enhance the performance of products and proccific (Teece, 1988). This is because learning is esses. The reality is that companies with the best often a process of trial, feedback, and evaluation. products will not always win, as chance events If too many parameters are changed simul- may cause 'lock-in' on inferior technologies taneously, the ability of firms to conduct mean- (Arthur, 1983) and may even in special cases ingful natural quasi experiments is attenuated. If generate switching costs for consumers. However, many aspects of a firm's learning environment while switching costs may favor the incumbent, change simultaneously, the ability to ascertain in regimes of rapid technological change switchcause–effect relationships is confounded because ing costs can become quickly swamped by cognitive structures will not be formed and rates switching benefits. Put differently, new products of learning diminish as a result. One implication employing different standards often appear with is that many investments are much longer term alacrity in market environments experiencing than is commonly thought. rapid technological change, and incumbents can The importance of path dependencies is ampli- be readily challenged by superior products and fied where conditions of increasing returns to services that yield switching benefits. Thus the adoption exist. This is a demand-side phenom- degree to which switching costs cause 'lock-in' enon, and it tends to make technologies and is a function of factors such as user learning, products embodying those technologies more rapidity of technological change, and the amount

uct amongst users, which in turn enables them to *Technological opportunities.* The concept of become more developed and hence more useful. path dependencies is given forward meaning Increasing returns to adoption has many sources through the consideration of an industry's technoincluding network externalities (Katz and Shapiro, logical opportunities. It is well recognized that 1985), the presence of complementary assets how far and how fast a particular area of indus- (Teece, 1986b) and supporting infrastructure trial activity can proceed is in part due to the (Nelson, 1996), learning by using (Rosenberg, technological opportunities that lie before it. Such 1982), and scale economies in production and opportunities are usually a lagged function of distribution. Competition between and amongst foment and diversity in basic science, and the technologies is shaped by increasing returns. rapidity with which new scientific breakthroughs

increasing returns. This is not to suggest that be completely exogenous to industry, not only first movers necessarily win. Because increasing because some firms have the capacity to engage returns have multiple sources, the prior posi- in or at least support basic research, but also tioning of firms can affect their capacity to exploit because technological opportunities are often fed increasing returns. Thus, in Mitchell's (1989) by innovative activity itself. Moreover, the recogstudy of medical diagnostic imaging, firms nition of such opportunities is affected by the

Teece, 1996. tegic shift.

assets could in theory start last and finish first. <sup>46</sup> Because of huge uncertainties, it may be extremely difficult In the presence of increasing returns, firms can to determine viable strategies early on. Since the rules of the compete passively, or they may compete strate- game and the identity of the players will be revealed only after the market has begun to evolve, the pay-off is likely to lie with building and maintaining organizational capabilities that support flexibility. For example, Microsoft's recent aboutface and vigorous pursuit of Internet business once the Net-Scape phenomenon became apparent is impressive, not so much because it perceived the need to change strategy, but because of its organizational capacity to effectuate a stra- <sup>45</sup> For further development, see Bercovitz, de Figueiredo, and

organizational structures that link the institutions engaging in basic research (primarily the university) to the business enterprise. Hence, the existence of technological opportunities can be quite firm specific.

Important for our purposes is the rate and direction in which relevant scientific frontiers are being rolled back. Firms engaging in R&D may find the path dead ahead closed off, though breakthroughs in related areas may be sufficiently close to be attractive. Likewise, if the path dead ahead is extremely attractive, there may be no incentive for firms to shift the allocation of resources away from traditional pursuits. The depth and width of technological opportunities in the neighborhood of a firm's prior research activities thus are likely to impact a firm's options with respect to both the amount and level of R&D activity that it can justify. In addition, a firm's past experience conditions the alternatives management is able to perceive. Thus, not only do firms in the same industry face 'menus' with different costs associated with particular technological choices, they also are looking at menus containing different choices.47

#### Assessment

The essence of a firm's competence and dynamic capabilities is presented here as being resident in the firm's organizational processes, that are in turn shaped by the firm's assets (positions) and its evolutionary path. Its evolutionary path, despite managerial hubris that might suggest otherwise, is often rather narrow.<sup>48</sup> What the firm can do and where it can go are thus rather constrained by its positions and paths. Its competitors are likewise constrained. Rents (profits) thus tend to flow not just from the asset structure of the firm and, as we shall see, the degree of its imitability, but also by the firm's ability to reconfigure and transform.

The parameters we have identified for determining performance are quite different from those in the standard textbook theory of the firm, and in the competitive forces and strategic conflict approaches to the firm and to strategy.<sup>49</sup> Moreover, the agency theoretic view of the firm as a nexus of contracts would put no weight on processes, positions, and paths. While agency approaches to the firm may recognize that opportunism and shirking may limit what a firm can do, they do not recognize the opportunities and constraints imposed by processes, positions, and paths.

Moreover, the firm in our conceptualization is much more than the sum of its parts—or a team tied together by contracts.<sup>50</sup> Indeed, to some extent individuals can be moved in and out of organizations and, so long as the internal processes and structures remain in place, performance will not necessarily be impaired. A shift in the environment is a far more serious threat to the firm than is the loss of key individuals, as individuals can be replaced more readily than organizations can be transformed. Furthermore, the dynamic capabilities view of the firm would suggest that the behavior and performance of particular firms may be quite hard to replicate, even if its coherence and rationality are observable. This matter and related issues involving replication and imitation are taken up in the section that follows.

## Replicability and imitatability of organizational processes and positions

Thus far, we have argued that the competences and capabilities (and hence competitive advantage) of a firm rest fundamentally on processes, shaped by positions and paths. However, competences can provide competitive advantage and generate rents only if they are based on a collection of routines, skills, and complementary assets that are difficult to imitate.<sup>51</sup> A particular set of routines can lose their value if they support a competence which no longer matters in the marketplace, or if they can be readily replicated or emulated by competitors. Imitation occurs when firms discover and simply copy a firm's organizational routines and procedures. Emulation occurs when firms

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>47</sup> This is a critical element in Nelson and Winter's (1982) view of firms and technical change.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>48</sup> We also recognize that the processes, positions, and paths of customers also matter. See our discussion above on increasing returns, including customer learning and network externalities.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>49</sup> In both the firm is still largely a black box. Certainly, little or no attention is given to processes, positions, and paths.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>50</sup> See Alchian and Demsetz (1972).

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>51</sup> We call such competences distinctive. See also Dierickx and Cool (1989) for a discussion of the characteristics of assets which make them a source of rents.

discover alternative ways of achieving the same functionality.<sup>52</sup>

### Replication

To understand imitation, one must first understand replication. Replication involves transferring or redeploying competences from one concrete economic setting to another. Since productive knowledge is embodied, this cannot be accomplished by simply transmitting information. Only in those instances where all relevant knowledge is fully codified and understood can replication be collapsed into a simple problem of information transfer. Too often, the contextual dependence of original performance is poorly appreciated, so unless firms have replicated their systems of productive knowledge on many prior occasions, the act of replication is likely to be difficult (Teece, 1976). Indeed, replication and transfer are often impossible absent the transfer of people, though this can be minimized if investments are made to convert tacit knowledge to codified knowledge. Often, however, this is simply not possible.

In short, competences and capabilities, and the routines upon which they rest, are normally rather difficult to replicate.53 Even understanding what all the relevant routines are that support a particular competence may not be transparent. Indeed, Lippman and Rumelt (1992) have argued that some sources of competitive advantage are so complex that the firm itself, let alone its competitors, does not understand them.<sup>54</sup> As Nelson and Winter (1982) and Teece (1982) have explained, many organizational routines are quite tacit in nature. Imitation can also be hindered by the fact few routines are 'stand-alone;' coherence may require that a change in one set of routines in one part of the firm (e.g., production) requires changes in some other part (e.g., R&D).

Some routines and competences seem to be attributable to local or regional forces that shape firms' capabilities at early stages in their lives. Porter (1990), for example, shows that differences in local product markets, local factor markets, and institutions play an important role in shaping competitive capabilities. Differences also exist within populations of firms from the same country. Various studies of the automobile industry, for example, show that not all Japanese automobile companies are top performers in terms of quality, productivity, or product development (see, for example, Clark and Fujimoto, 1991). The role of firm-specific history has been highlighted as a critical factor explaining such firmlevel (as opposed to regional or national-level) differences (Nelson and Winter, 1982). Replication in a different context may thus be rather difficult.

At least two types of strategic value flow from replication. One is the ability to support geographic and product line expansion. To the extent that the capabilities in question are relevant to customer needs elsewhere, replication can confer value.<sup>55</sup> Another is that the ability to replicate also indicates that the firm has the foundations in place for learning and improvement. Considerable empirical evidence supports the notion that the understanding of processes, both in production and in management, is the key to process improvement. In short, an organization cannot improve that which it does not understand. Deep process understanding is often required to accomplish codification. Indeed, if knowledge is highly tacit, it indicates that underlying structures are not well understood, which limits learning because scientific and engineering principles cannot be as systematically applied.<sup>56</sup> Instead, learning is confined to proceeding through trial and error, and the

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>52</sup> There is ample evidence that a given type of competence (e.g., quality) can be supported by different routines and combinations of skills. For example, the Garvin (1988) and Clark and Fujimoto (1991) studies both indicate that there was no one 'formula' for achieving either high quality or high product development performance.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>53</sup> See Szulanski's (1995) discussion of the intrafirm transfer of best practice. He quotes a senior vice president of Xerox as saying 'you can see a high performance factory or office, but it just doesn't spread. I don't know why.' Szulanski also discusses the role of benchmarking in facilitating the transfer of best practice.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>54</sup> If so, it is our belief that the firm's advantage is likely to fade, as luck does run out.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>55</sup> Needless to say, there are many examples of firms replicating their capabilities inappropriately by applying extant routines to circumstances where they may not be applicable, e.g., Nestle's transfer of developed-country marketing methods for infant formula to the Third World (Hartley, 1989). A key strategic need is for firms to screen capabilities for their applicability to new environments.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>56</sup> Different approaches to learning are required depending on the depth of knowledge. Where knowledge is less articulated and structured, trial and error and learning-by-doing are necessary, whereas in mature environments where the underlying engineering science is better understood, organizations can undertake more deductive approaches or what Pisano (1994) refers to as 'learning-before-doing.'

leverage that might otherwise come from the are thus more protectable if there is no need to application of scientific theory is denied. expose them in contexts where competitors can

competitor. If self-replication is difficult, imitation in certain particular contexts. Intellectual property is likely to be harder. In competitive markets, protection is not uniform across products, procit is the ease of imitation that determines the esses, and technologies, and is best thought of as sustainability of competitive advantage. Easy imi- islands in a sea of open competition. If one is

make imitation difficult. Thus, the more tacit the islands, then one indeed is at sea.

property protection is of increasing importance in ate conditions also exist. the United States, as since 1982 the legal system has adopted a more pro-patent posture. Similar trends are evident outside the United States. **CONCLUSION** Besides the patent system, several other factors cause there to be a difference between replication The four paradigms discussed above are quite

learn about them.

One should not, however, overestimate the *Imitation* overall importance of intellectual property protec-Imitation is simply replication performed by a tion; yet it presents a formidable imitation barrier tation implies the rapid dissipation of rents. not able to place the fruits of one's investment, Factors that make replication difficult also ingenuity, or creativity on one or more of the

firm's productive knowledge, the harder it is to We use the term appropriability regimes to replicate by the firm itself or its competitors. describe the ease of imitation. Appropriability When the tacit component is high, imitation may is a function both of the ease of replication and well be impossible, absent the hiring away of the efficacy of intellectual property rights as a key individuals and the transfers of key organiza- barrier to imitation. Appropriability is strong tion processes. when a technology is both inherently difficult However, another set of barriers impedes imi- to replicate and the intellectual property system tation of certain capabilities in advanced industrial provides legal barriers to imitation. When it countries. This is the system of intellectual pro- is inherently easy to replicate and intellectual perty rights, such as patents, trade secrets, and property protection is either unavailable or ineftrademarks, and even trade dress. fectual, then appropriability is weak. Intermedi- <sup>57</sup> Intellectual

costs and imitation costs. The observability of different, though the first two have much in the technology or the organization is one such common with each other (strategizing) as do the important factor. Whereas vistas into product last two (economizing). But are these paradigms technology can be obtained through strategies complementary or competitive? According to such as reverse engineering, this is not the case some authors, 'the resource perspective comfor process technology, as a firm need not expose plements the industry analysis framework' (Amit its process technology to the outside in order to and Schoemaker, 1993: 35). While this is benefit from it.58 Firms with product technology, undoubtedly true, we think that in several on the other hand, confront the unfortunate cir- important respects the perspectives are also comcumstances that they must expose what they have petitive. While this should be recognized, it is got in order to profit from the technology. Secrets not to suggest that there is only one framework that has value. Indeed, complex problems are likely to benefit from insights obtained from all <sup>57</sup> Trade dress refers to the 'look and feel' of a retail establish- of the paradigms we have identified plus more. ment, e.g., the distinctive marketing and presentation style of The trick is to work out which frameworks are The Nature Company. <sup>58</sup> An interesting but important exception to this can be found appropriate for the problem at hand. Slavish in second sourcing. In the microprocessor business, until the adherence to one class to the neglect of all introduction of the 386 chip, Intel and most other merchant others is likely to generate strategic blindspots. semi producers were encouraged by large customers like IBM to provide second sources, i.e., to license and share their The tools themselves then generate strategic proprietary process technology with competitors like AMD vulnerability. We now explore these issues and NEC. The microprocessor developers did so to assure further. Table 1 summarizes some similarities customers that they had sufficient manufacturing capability to

meet demand at all times. and differences.

10970266, 1997, 7, Downloaded from https://sms.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/(SICI)1097-0266(199708)18:7<509::AID-SMJ882>3.0.CO;2-Z, Wiley Online Library on [02/05/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

|                                                                                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                     | d<br>dr<br>ing<br>a<br>es<br>s<br>ic<br>tra<br>teg<br>s<br>t<br>m<br>an<br>ag<br>em<br>en<br>ion<br>t<br>q<br>ue<br>s<br>s                                                                                                                                                            |                                           | f m<br>o<br>an<br>ag<br>ers            | ly<br>is<br>an<br>a<br>s                                                          | ic<br>tra<br>teg<br>s<br>ien<br>ion<br>tat<br>re<br>or | tru<br>tur<br>s<br>c<br>e      |                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| (<br>1<br>)<br>At<br>ing<br>ten<br>t<br>ua<br>it<br>ive<br>t<br>co<br>mp<br>e<br>fo<br>rc<br>es                   | M<br>as<br>on<br>,<br>in<br>Ba                                                                                                                                      | Po<br>(<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>0<br>)<br>rte<br>r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | C<br>ha<br>be<br>l<br>ine<br>m<br>r<br>an | Ra<br>ion<br>l<br>t<br>a               | In<br>du<br>ies<br>tr<br>s<br>,<br>f<br>ir<br>m<br>s,<br>du<br>ts<br>p<br>ro<br>c | H<br>ig<br>h                                           | Ex<br>og<br>en<br>ou<br>s      | S<br>l<br>tru<br>tur<br>c<br>a<br>d<br>it<br>ion<br>d<br>co<br>n<br>s a<br>n<br>ito<br>t<br>co<br>mp<br>e<br>r<br>it<br>ion<br>ing<br>p<br>os       |
| (<br>2<br>)<br>S<br>ic<br>tra<br>teg<br>f<br>l<br>ic<br>t<br>co<br>n                                              | h<br>iav<br>l<br>l<br>i,<br>M<br>ac<br>e<br>he<br>l<br>l<br>ing<br>Sc<br>,<br>Co<br>t,<br>ur<br>no<br>h,<br>Na<br>s<br>i,<br>Ha<br>rsa<br>ny<br>S<br>ha<br>iro<br>p | G<br>he<br>(<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>6<br>)<br>at<br>m<br>aw<br>ha<br>iro<br>(<br>)<br>S<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>9<br>p<br>Br<br>de<br>bu<br>d<br>an<br>n<br>rg<br>er<br>an<br>le<br>bu<br>f<br>f<br>(<br>1<br>9<br>9<br>)<br>Na<br>5                                                             | C<br>ha<br>be<br>l<br>ine<br>m<br>r<br>an | ion<br>l<br>Hy<br>rat<br>p<br>er-<br>a | irm<br>F<br>s,<br>du<br>ts<br>p<br>ro<br>c                                        | O<br>fte<br>n<br>in<br>f<br>in<br>ite                  | do<br>En<br>g<br>en<br>ou<br>s | S<br>ic<br>tra<br>teg<br>int<br>ion<br>t<br>era<br>c<br>s                                                                                           |
| (<br>3<br>)<br>-b<br>d<br>Re<br>so<br>ur<br>ce<br>as<br>e<br>ive<br>t<br>p<br>ers<br>p<br>ec<br>s                 | Pe<br>nr<br>os<br>e,<br>lzn<br>ic<br>k,<br>Se<br>C<br>hr<br>is<br>ten<br>sen<br>,<br>An<br>dr<br>ew<br>s                                                            | lt<br>(<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>4<br>)<br>Ru<br>m<br>e<br>ha<br>d<br>ler<br>(<br>)<br>C<br>1<br>9<br>6<br>6<br>n<br>W<br>fe<br>lt<br>(<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>4<br>)<br>ern<br>er<br>(<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>0,<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>2<br>)<br>Te<br>ec<br>e                                            | ica<br>d<br>ian<br>R<br>r                 | ion<br>l<br>Ra<br>t<br>a               | Re<br>so<br>ur<br>ce<br>s                                                         | Lo<br>w                                                | do<br>En<br>g<br>en<br>ou<br>s | As<br>t<br>se<br>fu<br>i<br>b<br>i<br>l<br>ity<br>ng                                                                                                |
| (<br>)<br>ic<br>4<br>Dy<br>na<br>m<br>b<br>i<br>l<br>it<br>ies<br>ca<br>p<br>a<br>ive<br>t<br>p<br>ers<br>p<br>ec | hu<br>Sc<br>ter<br>mp<br>e<br>,<br>Ne<br>lso<br>n,<br>int<br>W<br>er<br>,<br>Te<br>ec<br>e                                                                          | i,<br>d<br>Do<br>Te<br>s<br>ec<br>e,<br>an<br>W<br>int<br>(<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>9<br>)<br>er<br>ha<br>la<br>d<br>d<br>Pr<br>a<br>an<br>l<br>(<br>)<br>Ha<br>1<br>9<br>9<br>0<br>m<br>e<br>Ha<br>d<br>es<br>an<br>y<br>he<br>lw<br>ig<br>ht<br>(<br>1<br>9<br>8<br>4<br>)<br>W<br>e<br>r | hu<br>ian<br>Sc<br>ter<br>mp<br>e         | ion<br>l<br>Ra<br>t<br>a               | Pr<br>oc<br>es<br>se<br>s,<br>it<br>ion<br>p<br>os<br>s,<br>hs<br>at<br>p         | Lo<br>w                                                | do<br>En<br>g<br>en<br>ou<br>s | As<br>t<br>se<br>lat<br>ion<br>ac<br>cu<br>mu<br>,<br>l<br>ica<br>b<br>i<br>l<br>ity<br>re<br>p<br>d<br>an<br>in<br>im<br>ita<br>b<br>i<br>l<br>ity |

Paradigm Intellectual Representative Nature Rationality Fundamental Short-run Role of Focal

roots authors of rents assumptions units of capacity for industrial concern

Table 1. Paradigms of strategy: Salient characteristics

Dierickx andCool (1989) Porter (1990)

### Efficiency vs. market power

The competitive forces and strategic conflict approaches generally see profits as stemming from strategizing—that is, from limitations on competition which firms achieve through raising rivals' costs and exclusionary behavior (Teece, 1984). The competitive forces approach in particular leads one to see concentrated industries as being attractive—market positions can be shielded behind entry barriers, and rivals costs can be raised. It also suggests that the sources of competitive advantage lie at the level of the industry, or possibly groups within an industry. In text book presentations, there is almost no attention at all devoted to discovering, creating, and commercializing new sources of value.

The dynamic capabilities and resources approaches clearly have a different orientation. They see competitive advantage stemming from high-performance routines operating 'inside the firm,' shaped by processes and positions. Path dependencies (including increasing returns) and technological opportunities mark the road ahead. Because of imperfect factor markets, or more precisely the nontradability of 'soft' assets like values, culture, and organizational experience, distinctive competences and capabilities generally cannot be acquired; they must be built. This sometimes takes years—possibly decades. In some cases, as when the competence is protected by patents, replication by a competitor is ineffectual as a means to access the technology. The capabilities approach accordingly sees definite limits on strategic options, at least in the short run. Competitive success occurs in part because of policies pursued and experience and efficiency obtained in earlier periods.

Competitive success can undoubtedly flow from both strategizing and economizing,<sup>59</sup> but along with Williamson (1991) we believe that 'economizing is more fundamental than strategizing . . . . or put differently, that economy is the best strategy.'60 Indeed, we suggest that, except

### Normative implications

The field of strategic management is avowedly normative. It seeks to guide those aspects of general management that have material effects on the survival and success of the business enterprise. Unless these various approaches differ in terms of the framework and heuristics they offer management, then the discourse we have gone through is of limited immediate value. In this paper, we have already alluded to the fact that the capabilities approach tends to steer managers toward creating distinctive and difficult-to-imitate advantages and avoiding games with customers and competitors. We now survey possible differences, recognizing that the paradigms are still in their infancy and cannot confidently support strong normative conclusions.

### Unit of analysis and analytic focus

Because in the capabilities and the resources framework business opportunities flow from a firm's unique processes, strategy analysis must be situational.<sup>61</sup> This is also true with the strategic conflict approach. There is no algorithm for creating wealth for the entire industry. Prescriptions they apply to industries or groups of firms at best suggest overall direction, and may indicate errors to be avoided. In contrast, the competitive forces approach is not particularly firm specific; it is industry and group specific.

#### Strategic change

The competitive forces and the strategic conflict approach, since they pay little attention to skills, know-how, and path dependency, tend to see

in special circumstances, too much 'strategizing' can lead firms to underinvest in core competences and neglect dynamic capabilities, and thus harm long-term competitiveness.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>59</sup> Phillips (1971) and Demsetz (1974) also made the case that market concentration resulted from the competitive success of more efficient firms, and not from entry barriers and restrictive practices.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>60</sup> We concur with Williamson that economizing and strategizing are not mutually exclusive. Strategic ploys can be used to disguise inefficiencies and to promote economizing outcomes, as with pricing with reference to learning curve costs. Our view of economizing is perhaps more expansive than

Williamson's as it embraces more than efficient contract design and the minimization of transactions costs. We also address production and organizational economies, and the distinctive ways that things are accomplished inside the business enterprise.

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>61</sup> On this point, the strategic conflict and the resources and capabilities are congruent. However, the aspects of 'situation' that matter are dramatically different, as described earlier in this paper.

The capabiliies approach sees value augmenting logical discontinuity. Additionally, the interaction strategic change as being difficult and costly. between specialized assets such as firm-specific Moreover, it can generally only occur incremen- capabilities and rivalry had the greatest influence tally. Capabilities cannot easily be bought; they on entry timing. must be built. From the capabilities perspective, strategy involves choosing among and committing *Diversification* to long-term paths or trajectories of competence

Here the resources and the capabilities approaches *Focus and specialization* suggest that entry decisions must be made with ing business. As Richard Rumelt has explained across divisions. it in conversation, 'the capabilities approach sug- The capabilities approach places emphasis on gests that if a firm looks inside itself, and at its the internal processes that a firm utilizes, as well market environment, sooner or later it will find as how they are deployed and how they will a business opportunity.' evolve. The approach has the benefit of indicating

abut where to look to find likely entrants, the a changing market. resources and the capabilities approach identifies likely entrants and their timing of entry. Brittain and Freeman (1980) using population ecology methodologies argued that an organization is <sup>62</sup> Cantwell shows that the technological competence of firms quick to expand when there is a significant over- persists over time, gradually evolving through firm-specific lap between its core capabilities and those needed learning. He shows that technological diversification has been the more likely it is to enter an emerging techni- Cantwell (1993).

strategic choice occurring with relative facility. cal subfield in its industry, following a techno-

development. Related diversification—that is, diversification that In this regard, we speculate that the dominance builds upon or extends existing capabilities—is of competitive forces and the strategic conflict about the only form of diversification that a approaches in the United States may have some- resources/capabilities framework is likely to view thing to do with observed differences in strategic as meritorious (Rumelt, 1974; Teece, 1980, 1982; approaches adopted by some U.S. and some for- Teece *et al*., 1994). Such diversification will be eign firms. Hayes (1985) has noted that American justifiable when the firms' traditional markets decline.<sup>62</sup> companies tend to favor 'strategic leaps' while, The strategic conflict approach is likely in contrast, Japanese and German companies tend to be a little more permissive; acquisitions that to favor incremental, but rapid, improvements. raise rivals' costs or enable firms to effectuate exclusive arrangements are likely to be seen as efficacious in certain circumstances. *Entry strategies*

reference to the competences and capabilities Focus needs to be defined in terms of distinctive which new entrants have, relative to the compe- competences or capability, not products. Products tition. Whereas the other approaches tell you little are the manifestation of competences, as comabout where to look to find likely entrants, the petences can be molded into a variety of products. capabilities approach identifies likely entrants. Product market specialization and decentalization Relatedly, whereas the entry deterrence approach configured around product markets may cause suggests an unconstrained search for new business firms to neglect the development of core comopportunities, the capabilities approach suggests petences and dynamic capabilities, to the extent that such opportunities lie close in to one's exist- to which competences require accessing assets

that competitive advantage is not just a function of how one plays the game; it is also a function *Entry timing* of the 'assets' one has to play with, and how Whereas the strategic conflict approach tells little these assets can be deployed and redeployed in

to survive in a new market. Recent research greater for chemicals and pharmaceuticals than for electrical and electronic-related fields., and he offers as an explanation (Mitchell, 1989) showed that the more industry- the greater straight-ahead opportunities in electrical and elec- specialized assets or capabilities a firm possesses, tronic fields than in chemicals and pharmaceuticals. See

#### **Future directions**

We have merely sketched an outline for a dynamic capabilities approach. Further theoretical work is needed to tighten the framework, and empirical research is critical to helping us understand how firms get to be good, how they sometimes stay that way, why and how they improve, and why they sometimes decline. 63 Researchers in the field of strategy need to join forces with researchers in the fields of innovation, manufacturing, and organizational behavior and business history if they are to unlock the riddles that lie behind corporate as well as national competitive advantage. There could hardly be a more ambitious research agenda in the social sciences today.

### **ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS**

Research for this paper was aided by support from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation through the Consortium on Competitiveness and Cooperation at the University of California, Berkeley. The authors are grateful for helpful comments from two anonymous referees, as well as from Raffi Amit, Jay Barney, Joseph Bower, Henry Chesbrough, Giovanni Dosi, Sumantra Goshal, Pankaj Ghemawat, Connie Helfat, Rebecca Henderson, Dan Levinthal, Richard Nelson, Margie Peteraf, Richard Rosenbloom, Richard Rumelt, Carl Shapiro, Oliver Williamson, and Sidney Winter. Useful feedback was obtained from workshops at the Haas School of Business, the Wharton School, the Kellogg School (Northwestern), the Harvard Business School, and the International Institute of Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA) in Vienna, the London School of Economics, and the London Business School.

#### REFERENCES

Abernathy, W. J. and K. Clark (1985). 'Innovation: Mapping the winds of creative destruction', *Research Policy*, **14**, pp. 3–22.

- Alchian, A. A. and H. Demsetz (1972). 'Production, information costs, and economic organization', American Economic Review, 62, pp. 777–795.
- Amit, R. and P. Schoemaker (1993). 'Strategic assets and organizational rent', *Strategic Management Journal* **14**(1), pp. 33–46.
- Andrews, K. (1987). The Concept of Corporate Strategy (3rd ed.). Dow Jones-Irwin, Homewood, IL.
- Aoki, M. (1990). 'The participatory generation of information rents and the theory of the firm'. In M. Aoki, B. Gustafsson and O. E. Williamson (eds.), *The Firm as a Nexus of Treaties*. Sage, London, pp. 26–52.
- Argyres, N. (1995). 'Technology strategy, governance structure and interdivisional coordination', *Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization*, **28**, pp. 337–358.
- Argyris, C. and D. Schon (1978). *Organizational Learning*. Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA.
- Arrow, K. (1969). 'The organization of economic activity: Issues pertinent to the choice of market vs. nonmarket allocation'. In *The Analysis and Evaluation of Public Expenditures: The PPB System, 1.* U.S. Joint Economic Committee, 91st Session. U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC, pp. 59–73.
- Arrow, K. (1996) 'Technical information and industrial structure', *Industrial and Corporate Change*, **5**(2), pp. 645–652.
- Arthur, W. B. (1983). 'Competing technologies and lock-in by historical events: The dynamics of allocation under increasing returns', working paper WP-83-90, International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria.
- Bain, J. S. (1959). *Industrial Organization*. Wiley, New York.
- Baldwin, C. and K. Clark (1991). 'Capabilities and capital investment: New perspectives on capital budgeting', Harvard Business School working paper #92–004.
- Barney, J. B. (1986). 'Strategic factor markets: Expectations, luck, and business strategy', *Management Science* **32**(10), pp. 1231–1241.
- Barney, J. B., J.-C. Spender and T. Reve (1994). *Crafoord Lectures*, Vol. 6. Chartwell-Bratt, Bromley, U.K. and Lund University Press, Lund, Sweden.
- Baumol, W., J. Panzar and R. Willig (1982). *Contestable Markets and the Theory of Industry Structure*. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, New York.
- Bercovitz, J. E. L., J. M. de Figueiredo and D. J. Teece (1996). 'Firm capabilities and managerial decisionmaking: A theory of innovation biases'. In R. Garud, P. Nayyar and Z. Shapira (eds), *Innovation: Over*sights and Foresights. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, U.K. pp. 233–259.
- Brandenburger, A. M. and B. J. Nalebuff (1996). *Coopetition*. Doubleday, New York.
- Brandenburger, A. M. and B. J. Nalebuff (1995). 'The right game: Use game theory to shape strategy', *Harvard Business Review*, **73**(4), pp. 57–71.
- Brittain, J. and J. Freeman (1980). 'Organizational proliferation and density-dependent selection'. In J. R. Kimberly and R. Miles (eds.), *The Organizational*

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>63</sup> For a gallant start, see Miyazaki (1995) and McGrath *et al.* (1996). Chandler's (1990) work on scale and scope, summarized in Teece (1993), provides some historical support for the capabilities approach. Other relevant studies can be found in a special issue of *Industrial and Corporate Change* **3**(3), 1994, that was devoted to dynamic capabilities.

- pp. 291–338. *Business Review*, **64**(5), pp. 53–58.
- Camp, R. (1989). *Benchmarking: The Search for Indus-* Ghemawat, P. (1991). *Commitment: The Dynamics of try Best practices that Lead to Superior Perform- Strategy*. Free Press, New York.
- zation in international industries'. In M. Casson *American Economic Review*, **72**, pp. 514–526.
- Chandler, A.D., Jr. (1966). *Strategy and Structure*. sachusetts Institute of Technology.
- versity Press, Cambridge, MA. *agement Journal*, **10**(5), pp. 399–411.
- Clark, K. and T. Fujimoto (1991). *Product Develop-* Hartley, R. F. (1989). *Marketing Mistakes*. Wiley, *ment Performance: Strategy, Organization and Man-* New York.
- Coase, R. (1937). 'The nature of the firm', *Economica*, pp. 111–119.
- ences among strategic group members', *Strategic* Press, Boston, MA, pp. 151–188.
- ing procurement hazards in the context of inno- *ing*. Wiley, New York.
- Demsetz, H. (1974). 'Two systems of belief about *Organization*. Free Press, New York.
- Dierickx, I. and K. Cool (1989). 'Asset stock accumu- pp. 607–630.
- Dixit, A. (1980). 'The role of investment in entry product technologies and the failure of established
- Dosi, G., D. J. Teece and S. Winter (1989). 'Toward a pp. 9–30.
- Doz, Y. and A. Shuen (1990). 'From intent to outcome: mer Special Issue, **15**, pp. 63–84.
- pp. 288–307. 605.
- Freeman, J. and W. Boeker (1984). 'The ecological Itami, H. and T. W. Roehl (1987). *Mobilizing Invisible*
- Fujimoto, T. (1994). 'Reinterpreting the resource-capa- pp. 415–430. draft working paper, Faculty of Economics, Univer- *Review*, **75**, pp. 424–440. sity of Tokyo. Kreps, D. M. and R. Wilson (1982a). 'Sequential equi-
- Garvin, D. (1988). *Managing Quality*. Free Press, libria', *Econometrica*, **50**, pp. 863–894. New York. Kreps, D. M. and R. Wilson (1982b). 'Reputation and
- management', Harvard Business School working **27**, pp. 253–279. paper #94–084. Langlois, R. (1994). 'Cognition and capabilities:

- *Life Cycle*. Jossey-Bass, San Francisco, CA, Ghemawat, P. (1986). 'Sustainable advantage', *Harvard*
- *ance*. Quality Press, Milwaukee, WI. Gilbert, R. J. and D. M. G. Newberry (1982). 'Preemp-Cantwell, J. (1993). 'Corporate technological speciali- tive patenting and the persistence of monopoly',
  - and J. Creedy (eds.), *Industrial Concentration and* Gittell, J. H. (1995). 'Cross functional coordination, *Economic Inequality*. Edward Elgar, Aldershot, control and human resource systems: Evidence from pp. 216–232. the airline industry', unpublished Ph.D. thesis, Mas-
- Doubleday, Anchor Books Edition, New York. Hansen, G. S. and B. Wernerfelt (1989). 'Determinants Chandler, A. D., Jr. (1990). *Scale and Scope: The* of firm performance: The relative importance of *Dynamics of Industrial Competition*. Harvard Uni- economic and organizational factors', *Strategic Man-*

  - *agement in the World Auto Industries*. Harvard Hayes, R. ( 1985 ). 'Strategic planning: Forward in Buiness School Press, Cambridge, MA. reverse ', *Harvard Business Review*, **63**(6),
- **4**, pp. 386–405. Hayes, R. and K. Clark (1985). 'Exploring the sources Coase, R. (1988). 'Lecture on the Nature of the Firm, of productivity differences at the factory level'. In III', *Journal of Law, Economics and Organization*, K. Clark, R. H. Hayes and C. Lorenz (eds.), *The* **4**, pp. 33–47. *Uneasy Alliance: Managing the Productivity–* Cool, K. and D. Schendel (1988). 'Performance differ- *Technology Dilemma*. Harvard Business School
- *Management Journal*, **9**(3), pp. 207–223. Hayes, R. and S. Wheelwright (1984). *Restoring our* de Figueiredo, J. M. and D. J. Teece (1996). 'Mitigat- *Competitive Edge: Competing Through Manufactur*
  - vation', *Industrial and Corporate Change*, **5**(2), Hayes, R., S. Wheelwright and K. Clark (1988). pp. 537–559. *Dynamic Manufacturing: Creating the Learning*
  - monopoly'. In H. Goldschmid, M. Mann and J. F. Henderson, R. M. (1994). 'The evolution of integrative Weston (eds.), *Industrial Concentration: The New* capability: Innovation in cardiovascular drug dis-*Learning*. Little, Brown, Boston, MA, pp. 161–184. covery', *Industrial and Corporate Change*, **3**(3),
  - lation and sustainability of competitive advantage', Henderson, R. M. and K. B. Clark (1990). 'Architec-*Management Science*, **35**(12), pp. 1504–1511. tural innovation: The reconfiguration of existing deterrence', *Economic Journal*, **90**, pp. 95–106. firms', *Administrative Science Quarterly*, **35**,
  - theory of corporate coherence: Preliminary remarks', Henderson, R. M. and I. Cockburn (1994). 'Measuring unpublished paper, Center for Research in Manage- competence? Exploring firm effects in pharmaceutment, University of California at Berkeley. ical research, *Strategic Management Journal*, Sum-
- A process framework for partnerships', INSEAD Iansiti, M. and K. B. Clark (1994). 'Integration and working paper. dynamic capability: Evidence from product develop-Fama, E. F. (1980). 'Agency problems and the theory ment in automobiles and mainframe computers', of the firm', *Journal of Political Economy*, **88**, *Industrial and Corporate Change*, **3**(3), pp. 557–
  - analysis of business strategy'. In G. Carroll and D. *Assets*. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA.
  - Vogel (eds.), *Strategy and Organization*. Pitman, Jacobsen, R. (1988). 'The persistence of abnormal Boston, MA, pp. 64–77. returns', *Strategic Management Journal*, **9**(5),
  - bility view of the firm: A case of the development- Katz, M. and C. Shapiro (1985). 'Network externalities, production systems of the Japanese automakers', competition and compatibility', *American Economic*
- Garvin, D. (1994). 'The processes of organization and imperfect information', *Journal of Economic Theory*,

- Opportunities seized and missed in the history of Mitchell, W. (1989). 'Whether and when? Probability Technological Oversights and Foresights, Stern *terly*, **34**, pp. 208–230.
- Learned, E., C. Christensen, K. Andrews and W. Guth *lectronics*. St. Martins Press, New York.
- Leonard-Barton, D. (1992). 'Core capabilities and core pp. 151–170. mer Special Issue, **13**, pp. 111–125. Winter Special Issue, **12**, pp. 61–74.
- Lev, B. and T. Sougiannis (1992). 'The capitalization, *Industrial and Corporate Change*, **3**(1), pp. 47–63.
- Levinthal, D. and J. March (1981). 'A model of adap- Systems Analysis, Laxemberg, Austria. tive organizational search', *Journal of Economic* Nelson, R. and S. Winter (1982). *An Evolutionary*
- Levinthal, D. A. and J. G. March (1993). 'The myopia Press, Cambridge, MA. of learning', *Strategic Management Journal*, Winter Penrose, E. (1959). *The Theory of the Growth of the* Special Issue, **14**, pp. 95–112. *Firm*. Basil Blackwell, London.
- capabilities and industry: The evolution of mutual *ture*. Lexington Books, Toronto.
- ing', *Annual Review of Sociology*, **14**, pp. 319–340. ter Special Issue, **15**, pp. 85–100.
- Link, A. N., D. J. Teece and W. F. Finan (October Porter, M. E. (1980). *Competitive Strategy*. Free Press, 1996). 'Estimating the benefits from collaboration: New York. The Case of SEMATECH', *Review of Industrial* Porter, M. E. (1990). *The Competitive Advantage of Organization,* **11**, pp. 737–751. *Nations*. Free Press, New York.
- tal', *Industrial and Corporate Change*, **1**(1), *Review*, **68**(3), pp. 79–91.
- Mahoney, J. (1995). 'The management of resources and *Investment*. Oxford University Press, New York.
- Mahoney, J. T. and J. R. Pandian (1992). 'The resource- Cambridge, MA pp. 363–380. Cambridge. MA.
- Mason, E. (1949). 'The current state of the monopoly Rumelt, R. P. (1984). 'Towards a strategic theory of
- McGrath, R. G., M-H. Tsai, S. Venkataraman and pp. 556–570. I. C. MacMillan (1996). 'Innovation, competitive Rumelt, R. P. (1991). 'How much does industry *Science,* **42**(3), pp. 389–403. pp. 167–185.
- analysis', *Econometrica*, **50**, pp. 443–459. School Press, Cambridge, MA.
- *Theory*, **27**, pp. 280–312. *Economy*, **91**(4), pp. 636–653.
- pp. 511–528. *Democracy*. Harper, New York.

- the computer industry', working paper, University and timing of incumbents' entry into emerging of Connecticut. Presented at the conference on industrial subfields', *Administrative Science Quar-*
- School of Business, New York University, 11–12 Miyazaki, K. (1995). *Building Competences in the* March 1994. *Firm: Lessons from Japanese and European Optoe-*
- (1969). *Business Policy: Text and Cases*. Irwin, Mody, A. (1993). 'Learning through alliances', *Journal* Homewood, IL. *of Economic Behavior and Organization*, **20**(2),
- rigidities: A paradox in managing new product Nelson, R. R. (1991). 'Why do firms differ, and how development', *Strategic Management Journal*, Sum- does it matter?' *Strategic Management Journal*,
- Leonard-Barton, D. (1995). *Wellsprings of Knowledge*. Nelson, R. R. (1994). 'The co-evolution of technology, Harvard Business School Press, Boston, MA. industrial structure, and supporting institutions',
  - amortization and value-relevance of R&D', unpub- Nelson, R. (1996). 'The evolution of competitive or lished manuscript, University of California, Berke- comparative advantage: A preliminary report on a ley, and University of Illinois, Urbana–Champaign. study', WP-96-21, International Institute for Applied
  - *Behavior and Organization*, **2**, pp. 307–333. *Theory of Economic change*. Harvard University
- Levinthal, D. and J. Myatt (1994). 'Co-evolution of Phillips, A. C. (1971). *Technology and Market Struc-*
- fund processing', *Strategic Management Journal*, Pisano, G. (1994). 'Knowledge integration and the Winter Special Issue, **15**, pp. 45–62. locus of learning: An empirical analysis of process Levitt, B. and J. March (1988). 'Organizational learn- development', *Strategic Management Journal*, Win-
- Lippman, S. A. and R. P. Rumelt (1992) 'Demand Prahalad, C. K. and G. Hamel (1990). 'The core uncertainty and investment in industry-specific capi- competence of the corporation', *Harvard Business*
  - pp. 235–262. Richardson, G. B. H. (1960, 1990). *Information and*
  - the resources of management', *Journal of Business* Rosenberg, N. (1982). *Inside the Black Box: Tech-Research*, **33**(2), pp. 91–101. *nology and Economics*. Cambridge University Press,
  - based view within the conversation of strategic man- Rumelt, R. P. (1974). *Strategy, Structure, and* agement', *Strategic Management Journal*, **13**(5), *Economic Performance*. Harvard University Press,
  - problem in the U.S.', *Harvard Law Review*, **62**, the firm'. In R. B. Lamb (ed.), *Competitive Strategic* pp. 1265–1285. *Management*. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ,
  - advantage and rent: A model and test', *Management* matter?', *Strategic Management Journal*, **12**(3),
- Milgrom, P. and J. Roberts (1982a). 'Limit pricing and Rumelt, R. P., D. Schendel and D. Teece (1994). entry under incomplete information: An equilibrium *Fundamental Issues in Strategy*. Harvard Business
- Milgrom, P. and J. Roberts (1982b). 'Predation, repu- Schmalensee, R. (1983). 'Advertising and entry detertation and entry deterrence', *Journal of Economic* rence: An exploratory model', *Journal of Political*
- Milgrom, P. and J. Roberts (1990). 'The economics of Schumpeter, J. A. (1934). *Theory of Economic Devel*modern manufacturing: Technology, strategy, and *opment*. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA.
  - organization', *American Economic Review*, **80**(3), Schumpeter, J. A. (1942). *Capitalism, Socialism, and*

- Shapiro, C. (1989). 'The theory of business strategy', of rapid technological progress', *Journal of Economic RAND Journal of Economics*, **20**(1), pp. 125–137. *Behavior and Organization*, **18**(1), pp. 1–25.
- Shuen, A. (1994). 'Technology sourcing and learning Teece, D. J. (1993). 'The dynamics of industrial capi-Berkeley. **31**(1), pp. 199–225.
- *Recent Developments in the Theory of Industrial omic Behavior and Organization*, **31**, pp. 193–224.
- Szulanski, G. (1995). 'Unpacking stickiness: An empiri- *and Corporate Change*, **3**(3), pp. 537–556. cal investigation of the barriers to transfer best Teece, D. J., R. Rumelt, G. Dosi and S. Winter (1994).
- Teece, D. J. (1976). *The Multinational Corporation zation*, **23**, pp. 1–30. *and the Resource Cost of International Technology* Tushman, M. L., W. H. Newman and E. Romanelli
- scope of the enterprise', *Journal of Economic nia Management Review*, **29**(1), pp. 29–44. *Behavior and Organization*, **1**, pp. 223–247. Wernerfelt, B. (1984). 'A resource-based view of the
- the efficient international transfer of technology', pp. 171–180. *Annals of the Academy of Political and Social* Wernerfelt, B. and C. Montgomery (1988). 'Tobin's Q
- Teece, D. J. (1982). 'Towards an economic theory of *American Economic Review*, **78**(1), pp. 246–250. *Behavior and Organization*, **3**, pp. 39–63. Free Press, New York.
- management', *California Management Review*, *of Capitalism*. Free Press, New York.
- the multinational enterprise', *Journal of Economic Journal*, Winter Special Issue, **12**, pp. 75–94.
- Teece, D. J. (1986b). 'Profiting from technological *ance*. Oxford University Press, New York.
- of the firm'. In G. Dosi, C. Freeman, R. Nelson, New York. G. Silverberg and L. Soete (eds.), *Technical Change* Zander, U. and B. Kogut (1995). 'Knowledge and the
- Teece, D. J. (1992). 'Competition, cooperation, and *Science*, **6**(1), pp. 76–92. innovation: Organizational arrangements for regimes

- strategies in the semiconductor industry', unpub- talism: Perspectives on Alfred Chandler's *Scale and* lished Ph.D. dissertation, University of California, *Scope* (1990)', *Journal of Economic Literature*,
- Sutton, J. (1992). 'Implementing game theoretical mod- Teece, D. J. (1996) 'Firm organization, industrial strucels in industrial economies', In A. Del Monte (ed.), ture, and technological innovation', *Journal of Econ-*
  - *Organization*. University of Michigan Press, Ann Teece, D. J. and G. Pisano (1994). 'The dynamic Arbor, MI, pp. 19–33. capabilities of firms: An introduction', *Industrial*
  - practice inside the firm', *Academy of Management* 'Understanding corporate coherence: Theory and evi-*Journal*, Best Papers Proceedings, pp. 437–441. dence', *Journal of Economic Behavior and Organi-*
- *Transfer*. Ballinger, Cambridge, MA. (1986). 'Convergence and upheaval: Managing the Teece, D. J. (1980). 'Economics of scope and the unsteady pace of organizational evolution', *Califor-*
- Teece, D. J. (1981). 'The market for know-how and firm', *Strategic Management Journal*, **5**(2),
  - *Science*, **458**, pp. 81–96. and the importance of focus in firm performance',
  - the multiproduct firm', *Journal of Economic* Williamson, O. E. (1975). *Markets and Hierarchies*.
- Teece, D. J. (1984). 'Economic analysis and strategic Williamson, O. E. (1985). *The Economic Institutions*
- 26(3), pp. 87–110. Williamson, O. E. (1991). 'Strategizing, economizing, Teece, D. J. (1986a). 'Transactions cost economics and and economic organization', *Strategic Management*
  - *Behavior and Organization*, **7**, pp. 21–45. Williamson, O. E. (1996) *The Mechanisms of Govern-*
- innovation', *Research Policy*, **15**(6), pp. 285–305. Womack, J., D. Jones and D. Roos (1991). *The* Teece, D. J. 1988. 'Technological change and the nature *Machine that Changed the World*. Harper-Perennial,
  - *and Economic Theory*. Pinter Publishers, New York, speed of the transfer and imitation of organizational pp. 256–281. capabilities: An empirical test', *Organization*