# Research Methodology

**Two pager**

**Executive MBA 22, 2024 – 2026**

| Name:     |  D.T. (Daan) Luttik |
| ----: | :---- |
| **Student Number:** |  230001004 |
| **Email:**  |  <d.luttik@my.nyenrode.nl> |

**DECLARATION**  
By submitting this work electronically, I, Daan Luttik, declare that the entirety of the work contained therein is my own original work; and that I have not previously in its entirety or in part submitted it for obtaining any qualification or in fulfilment of any other academic assignment. In this I acknowledge that I understand the following elements of ethical academic conduct:

* Plagiarism: I understand the rules with regard to referencing and use of content that is contained in either hard or soft copy sources, including the internet or any other electronic medium.  
* Repetition of content: I understand the rules regarding the extent to which I may resubmit content that I have already submitted as part of any other academic assignment.

I acknowledge that it is my responsibility to clarify any concerns or queries with regard to this declaration with the faculty member concerned, and that lack of knowledge about these requirements does not constitute a defence for any transgression whether I am aware of it or not.

## Practical information

Student: Daan Luttik  
Title project: Generative and agentic AI in marketing: new opportunities to create value  
Submission date: July 14th 2025  
Type of research: Qualitative research  
Organizational superstition: None, but support from Techonomy / The Relevance Group is expected.  
Preferred supervisor (top 3):

1. Dr. Stefanie Beninger (Marketing & Supply Chain Management)  
   [s.beninger@nyenrode.nl](mailto:s.beninger@nyenrode.nl)  
2. Prof. dr. Albert Plugge (Entrepreneurship, Governance & Stewardship)  
   [a.plugge@nyenrode.nl](mailto:a.plugge@nyenrode.nl)  
3. Prof. dr. Henry Robben  (Marketing & Supply Chain Management)  
   [h.robben@nyenrode.nl](mailto:h.robben@nyenrode.nl)

## Introduction

Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI)  is often seen as the replacement for a vast array of knowledge jobs (Bessen, 2018). Furthermore, marketing and sales might be the largest opportunity of all, representing about one-third of the expected market cap of AI (Mayer et al., 2025).
However, in marketing (and arguably in many other domains), AI still mainly serves as a question and answer machine only focussing on brainstorming and content generation, rather than a system that can really do the work, or make a meaningful contribution to a vast amount of normal daily tasks (Brinker & Riemersma, 2025, p. 35). Recent and quickly evolving technologies provide AI with the relevant context and access to tools, which should enable it to start making meaningful contributions to these daily tasks.

We aim to explore the question *“How can marketing managers create value with generative AI?”* , within that scope, I want to give a particular focus on Agentic AI. This area is largely unexplored in academic literature, especially outside the context of content generation.

Academically, we aim to address the gap in literature when it comes to applying GenAI within the marketing context outside of the content-generation domain. Especially by using Agentic systems.

This in turn will allow managers to use our insights to operate their marketing departments more efficiently and leverage GenAI to create more value.

## Theoretical framework

In many ways, the rollout of AI is a new wave of digital transformation (Holmström, 2022). The various methodologies and frameworks developed for digital transformation are relevant to consider when evaluating the impact of generative AI.

When it comes to this specific research question, the concept of “value” (Sidorchuk, 2015) is also of critical importance, especially since it is a key part of the field of marketing. Both earlier work on digital transformation, and earlier research on value will be used to inform and inspire this research.  
We will use the lens of dynamic capabilities[^1] (Teece et al., 1997\) to help understand what marketing departments can do to seize the new and quickly evolving AI opportunities. We look at the three core components of dynamic capabilities:

* **Sensing:** We will try to make this usable, providing a frame of reference for common areas of AI opportunities. In doing so we answer the question: What are examples, and more importantly, the key areas of high value GenAI opportunities in marketing? And how can we sense both new opportunities and the relevance of a given opportunity for a specific organization.  
* **Seizing:** What are best-practices that marketing managers can apply to allow the department to seize new AI opportunities?  
* **Transforming:** How can skills, workflows, and the martech stack be reconfigured to embed agentic AI into day-to-day operations?

## Research method

The question “how can” is exploratory in nature, and therefore best covered by qualitative research. Since many managers do not yet know how they should leverage AI to the fullest, a model combining both interviews with AI experts and interviews with marketing managers will be used. The latter group will be scoped broadly, both marketing managers, CMOs, and CEOs who are involved with the marketing process will be considered. This approach will help us combine the experience from the marketing domain, with the suggestions and ideas from the AI experts.  
Due to the emerging nature of AI in business, utilizing a grounded theory (Glaser & Strauss, 1999\) approach seems sensible.  In line with Vidal et al. (2022) in-depth interviews will be applied, using both purposive sampling and chain referral sampling, afterwards, theory can be derived by first identifying first-order themes and then extracting higher-order concepts from those themes.

## References

Bessen, J. (2018). *AI and jobs: The role of demand*. National Bureau of Economic Research. 10.3386/w24235  
Brinker, S., & Riemersma, F. (2025). *The State of Martech 2025*. Chiefmartec, MartechTribe.  
Glaser, B., & Strauss, A. (1999). *Discovery of Grounded Theory* (1st ed.). Strategies for Qualitative Research. 9780203793206  
Holmström, J. (2022). From AI to digital transformation: The AI readiness framework. *Business Horizons*, *65*(3), 329-339. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2021.03.006](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2021.03.006)  
Mayer, H., Yee, L., Chui, M., & Roberts, R. (2025). *AI in the workplace: A report for 2025*. McKinsey & Company. Retrieved May 10, 2025, from [https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/mckinsey-digital/our-insights/superagency-in-the-workplace-empowering-people-to-unlock-ais-full-potential-at-work](https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/mckinsey-digital/our-insights/superagency-in-the-workplace-empowering-people-to-unlock-ais-full-potential-at-work)  
Orlikowisk, W. J. (1999). Technologies-in-Practice: An Enacted Lens for Studying Technology in Organizations.  
Sidorchuk, R. (2015). The Concept of “Value” in the Theory of Marketing. *Asian Social Science*, *11*(9), 320-325. <http://dx.doi.org/10.5539/ass.v11n9p320>  
Teece, D., Pisano, G., & Shuen, A. (1997). Dynamic capabilities and strategic management. *Strategic management journal*, *18*(7), 509 \- 533\. [https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-0266(199708)18:7](https://doi.org/10.1002/\(SICI\)1097-0266\(199708\)18:7)\<509::AID-SMJ882\>3.0.CO;2-Z  
Vargo, S. L., & Lusch, R. F. (2017). Service-dominant logic 2025\. *International Journal of Research in Marketing*, *34*(1), 46–67. <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijresmar.2016.11.001>

## Appendix A: Theoretical Framework

 I still feel unsure of the choice for dynamic capabilities. What interests me personally are the questions:

1. What are the key opportunities for marketing managers to capture value with AI (which relates to sensing, but is applied)  
2. How can we structure our organization to structurally seize the many new AI opportunities (which fits the framework nicely).  
3. How can these AI opportunities be implemented in the organization? Which combines the reconfiguring aspect of transforming with the transformability of the resources in question. This poses the question of which resources should be agile and transformable (e.g. AI work-processes), which should be future proof (e.g. foundational AI infrastructure) and which should be easily replaceable (e.g. specific AI applications).
4. What is the value that results from the above (value theory / performance linkage)

 While I do consider dynamic capabilities to be the best option given my current understanding I am still open to consider other lenses that might fit the above mentioned questions better. Other theoretical frameworks that are worth evaluating include technologies-in-practice (Orlikowisk, 1999\) and service dominant logic (Vargo, 2017\)

## Appendix B: Other references that have been explored

The following references have already been explored, and were referenced in the conceptual design. However, they have not been used in the body of this two-pager. For further reference they have been included below:  
Alonso, E. (2002). AI and Agents: State of the Art. *AI Magazine*, *23*(3). [https://doi.org/10.1609/aimag.v23i3.1654](https://doi.org/10.1609/aimag.v23i3.1654)
Antanavicius, T., Warwick, J., & Parra, D. S. (2025). *Model Context Protocol servers*. Github. Retrieved May 10, 2025, from [https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/servers)  
Anthropic. (2024, November 25). *Introducing the Model Context Protocol*. Anthropic. Retrieved May 10, 2025, from [https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol](https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol)  
Elwell, C. (2024). *What is marketing operations and what do MOps professionals do?* MarTech. Retrieved May 10, 2025, from [https://martech.org/what-is-marketing-operations-and-who-are-mops-professionals/](https://martech.org/what-is-marketing-operations-and-who-are-mops-professionals/)  
Fernandez-Vidal, J., Perotti, F. A., Gonzalez, R., & Gasco, J. (2022). Managing digital transformation: The view from the top. *Journal of Business Research*, *152*, 29-41. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2022.07.020](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbusres.2022.07.020)
Kumar, V., Abdul, R., & Nadeem, W. (2024). AI-powered marketing: What, where, and how? *International Journal of Information Management*, *77*, 102783\. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2024.102783](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2024.102783)  
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones, L., Gomez, A. N., Kaiser, L., & Polosukhin, I. (2017). Attention is all you need. *Advances in neural information processing systems*, *30*.
